

Iraqi Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi used an interview Wednesday
to call for talks with insurgents in the country -- with the
exception of Al-Qaeda.


"I do believe in fact that there is no way but to talk to
everybody except Al- Qaeda because they are also not very much
willing in fact to talk to anybody," he told BBC radio.


"Except those, in fact I think all should be invited, should be
called to sit down around the table to discuss their fears, their
reservations."


Hashemi, a Sunni, added that the insurgents were just part of the
Iraqi communities.


"We believe that all Iraqis, whether they are participating in
the political process or outside the political process, everybody
in fact principally agrees that there is no way in front of the
Iraqis but democracy, but political process," he said.


Many Iraqis were currently "annoyed" because coalition forces in
their country were "damaging the dignity of the Iraqis, damaging
the sovereignty of the Iraqis".


"But when these forces pull out, withdraw from the Iraqis,
definitely they will be a genuine partner in the political
process," he added.


Despite this view, Hashemi stressed that he believed coalition
forces should stay in Iraq "until further notice".


Hashemi was also asked about Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing
Law), the Iraqi-US effort to calm the bloody violence between
Sunni and Shiite factions in Baghdad.


He said there had been a "significant improvement" in security
but that coalition forces had used sometimes used "excessive
force" and that there had been "malpractices and violations of
human rights" among sectarian fighters.


Asked about the infiltration of security forces by militiamen, he
described it as "a matter of fact".


"What we need in fact (is) to purge the current national armed
forces from the militias and to orient these forces into
patriotic as well as professional basis," he said.


He suggested that a "mediator" could be brought in to help remove
militia from the forces.


"I do believe that British as well as Americans could play a
significant role in this action," he added.


Hashemi also expressed discomfort that sectarianism was reflected
in the make-up of Iraq's government.


"We have to break up the polarisation (along sectarian lines)...
one of the political recipes might be that Iraq is going to be
convinced that, to break up this polarisation, we have to go for
first of all election system reform and second to go for early
elections," he said.

