

Australian Prime Minister John Howard vowed Wednesday to stand by
ally the United States in its war in Iraq, despite mounting
public opposition at home to his defiant stance.


Howard insisted he would not bow to pressure to pull out
Australian troops from the spiralling conflict, saying the US
plan to restore peace must be given time to work as the stability
of the region was at stake.


"What Iraq and her people need now is time, not a timetable. They
seek our patience, not political positioning. They require our
resolve, not our retreat," he told the Australian Strategic
Policy Institute.


Howard urged Australians not to question whether it was right or
wrong to go to war in Iraq in the first place, but rather to
consider the consequences of a hasty withdrawal from the strife-
torn country.


"I am not asking Australians to discount the enormous
difficulties in Iraq or to change their views about the original
decision," Howard said.


"I am asking them to consider the situation we now face and the
stakes involved," he said as the United States began to pour in
20,000 extra troops in a bid to stabilise Iraq and stem sectarian
violence.


Australia has around 1,400 troops in and around Iraq after
announcing their deployment to back US forces exactly four years
ago.


Howard, who faces re-election later this year, earlier Wednesday
conceded that his Iraq policy was unpopular, a day after a new
opinion poll showed his Liberal party trailing the opposition
Labor Party by 39 percent to 61 percent.


Labor leader Kevin Rudd has pledged to launch negotiations for
the withdrawal of Australian combat troops as an early initiative
of a Labor government.


But the prime minister said he would not be swayed from his
unpopular course on Iraq, saying he believed it to be right.


Leadership involved "saying well this is what I think should
happen and I will go on arguing that it continue to happen even
though the majority of people are against me," Howard told
Southern Cross Radio.


"We will continue to stay in Iraq while we believe that we are
significantly contributing to the situation where the Iraqis can
reasonably look after their own security," he said.


The comments came as a Newspoll survey of more than 1,200 voters
meanwhile found that 68 percent thought Howard was arrogant,
compared to 29 percent for Rudd.


Only 50 percent thought Mr Howard was in touch with the
electorate, compared to 76 percent for Rudd, and fewer than half
-- only 49 percent of those polled -- thought Howard was
trustworthy.


But Howard dismissed the poll as "counter-intuitive".


"I've got to say this, I don't have anything to be arrogant about
-- not at the moment, politically, nothing at all," he told
Southern Cross Broadcasting.

