

The United States on Wednesday accused EU countries of increasing
their financial support for aircraft maker Airbus while a
complaint is being examined by the World Trade Organisation.


"Remarkably, in the midst of this dispute, the Airbus governments
are increasing their involvement in Airbus, not reducing it," a
US official told a WTO panel examining its dispute with the
European Union over aircraft subsidies


"Just a few weeks ago, the French prime minister announced that
France would provide 100 million euros to support research into
new carbon fibre composite technologies for Airbus," he added.


French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin announced on March 1
that Paris would release 100 million euros (133 billion dollars)
for the composite materials industry, which nominally supplies a
wider range of industrial sectors with materials like carbon
fibre.


Villepin said it would be "decisive for the future" of the French
aircraft industry. Airbus, dominated by French and German
interests, is based in France.


The United States and the EU launched reciprocal complaints at
the WTO over subsidies to the world's two biggest civil aircraft
makers, respectively Boeing and Airbus, in October 2004.


The US case has targeted government loans to Airbus for the
launch of new models, while the EU has challenged assistance
accorded to Boeing by US state governments as well as the US
Defense Department and the space agency NASA.


The United States told the WTO that Airbus launch aid paid by
Britain, France, Germany and Spain reached 15 billion dollars.


Government financial support had helped Airbus become the world's
number one between 2003 and 2006, and overcome recent problems
with new models, seriously undermining Boeing on the marketplace,
the United States argued.


Airbus "will be back in the market in the very near future and,
in fact, has already started to win new orders in recent weeks,"
the US official said.


"If launch aid is permitted to continue, the adverse effects seen
in recent years will continue as well," he added.

