

Bank of England policymakers voted 8-1 to keep British borrowing
costs steady at 5.25 percent in March, minutes of their latest
meeting showed on Wednesday.


The minutes said that for most members, "the financial market
volatility added to the case for holding rates" at the March 7-8
meeting.


However one Bank of England policymaker surprisingly called for a
quarter-point cut at the meeting, while two members of the
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) who had sought a hike in February
decided to keep rates steady.


Analysts said the findings of the minutes suggested that the Bank
of England would not move to hike rates as early as April.


With borrowing costs set to remain at 5.25 percent, at least
until May, the value of sterling dropped against the dollar in
early European trade.


Most in the market had expected a 7-2 vote at the March meeting,
with the two newest members, Tim Besley and Andrew Sentance,
repeating their February call for a rate hike.


"Minutes to the March MPC meeting presented UK markets with a
surprise," Investec analyst Philip Shaw said after it was
revealed that MPC member David Blanchflower had opted for a
quarter-point cut.


For Blanchflower, "there was considerable evidence of spare
capacity in the labour market, and wage pressures were benign,"
the minutes said.


He felt also that inflation was likely to decline faster in the
short term than the projection given by the BoE's nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee.


"For most of the Committee, the news on the month was a little on
the downside," the minutes said. "Nevertheless, they remained
concerned that the risks to inflation over the medium-term
remained on the upside."


British 12-month inflation rose to 2.8 percent in February,
compared with a consensus forecast by analysts of 2.7 percent,
the same level as in January.


Meanwhile despite Blanchflower call for a rate cut, Investec's
Shaw noted that upside risks to inflation remained the
Committee's chief concern.


"The next move in rates is likely to be a 25 basis point increase
to 5.5 percent in May," the analyst forecast, but noted that
"further soft data on consumer activity or an intensification of
market volatility could persuade the MPC not to tighten again
this year."

