

Tens of thousands of Kurds gathered across Turkey Wednesday to
celebrate their biggest festival as police stepped up security,
fearing radicals may profit from the occasion to stir unrest.


The Newroz festivities, which have been mired in bloodshed in the
past, led to a few relatively minor incidents between police and
demonstrators, resulting in at least nine arrests.


The largest crowd -- about 100,000 people -- gathered in
Diyarbakir, the central city of the mainly Kurdish southeast,
where militant revellers chanted slogans in favour of Kurdish
rebels fighting the government. Police arrested eight people.


Three women were slightly injured when demonstrators hurled
stones at the police and the security forces fired warning shots
in the air, the Anatolia news agency reported.


Another person was detained in the southern city of Adana for
carrying flags of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which has
waged a bloody campaign for self- rule in the southeast since
1984.


Brief scuffles between police and demonstrators were reported in
nearby Mersin.


Newroz Day marks both the arrival of spring and the Kurdish New
Year.


It has become a platform for Turkey's Kurdish minority to demand
greater freedoms or demonstrate support for the PKK, listed as a
terrorist group by Ankara and much of the international
community.


Another 50,000 people attended the festivities in Istanbul,
Turkey's biggest city, lighting traditional bonfires and dancing
to Kurdish folk music.


"Real democracy or nothing," they chanted, while a group of
youths unfurled a giant portrait of jailed PKK leader Abdullah
Ocalan before police intervened to take it down.


The festivities were organised by Turkey's main Kurdish political
movement, the Democratic Society Party (DTP), whose members have
in recent weeks become increasingly targeted by judicial action
over charges of backing the PKK.


In Ankara, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan appealed for peace
and unity at official Newroz ceremonies, held in a bid to prevent
the day from being monopolised by Kurdish militants.


"Let the seeds of hatred and hostility burn in the bonfires,"
Erdogan said. "As long as we do not hurt each other's feelings,
no one can damage our unity."


He then lit a bonfire and several of several ministers jumped
over it.


Newroz, which marks the awakening of nature at the March 21
equinox, is also celebrated in Iran and other Muslim communities
in the Caucasus and Central Asia.


Celebrations in Turkey have been relatively calm in recent years,
but police in Istanbul and nearby Kocaeli last week detained 12
suspected Kurdish rebels in possession of 11.7 kilograms (25.7
pounds) of plastic explosives, reportedly intended for bomb
attacks at Newroz.


The run-up to the festival was also marred by allegations that
Ocalan is being gradually poisoned with toxic substances in the
northwestern prison island of Imrali, where he is the sole
inmate.


Ankara rejected the accusations by Ocalan's lawyers, but the DTP
warned of violence "if something bad happens" to the rebel
leader, seen by many Kurds as a national hero and a freedom
fighter.


In 1992, in the bloodiest Newroz so far, about 50 people were
killed by the security forces during clashes across the
southeast.


More recently, in 2002, two men were crushed to death during a
police crackdown on violent Newroz demonstrations in Mersin, home
to a particularly militant community of migrant Kurds.


Under pressure from the European Union, which it is seeking to
join, Ankara has in recent years broadened Kurdish cultural
freedoms.


But Kurdish activists say the reforms are inadequate and have
called on the government for a general amnesty for PKK militants
to encourage them to end their armed campaign, which has resulted
in more than 37,000 deaths since 1984.

