

Although eurozone inflation is set to fall in the coming months,
ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet sounded the alarm Wednesday
about future price stability, raising the prospect of further
interest rate rises.


"In the policy relevant medium term, risks to price stability
remain on the upside," Trichet told the European Parliament's
economic and monetary affairs committee in Brussels.


While the risk of a renewed surge in oil prices still loomed,
Trichet stressed in particular that higher wages could drive up
inflation and said the ECB would keep a close eye on negotiations
between employers and workers.


The ECB raised its key interest rates earlier this month to a
five-and-a-half- year high of 3.75 percent to keep inflation in
check and has left the door open to further increases if the
economy keeps gathering steam.


Trichet painted a favourable outlook for eurozone growth after a
strong start to the year, pointing to firm domestic demand,
exports and business investment.


"Looking ahead conditions remain in place for the euro area
economy to grow solidly," he said.


With the eurozone in the midst of a strong economic recovery and
unemployment at record lows, many workers are demanding wage
increases as companies rake in bumper profits.


That has stoked fears at the ECB that rising wages could have a
knock-on effect on inflation, which the Frankfurt-based central
bank prefers to see at less than, but close to, two percent on an
annual basis.


"The governing council will monitor the upcoming wage
negotiations in the euro area countries very carefully," Trichet
said, stressing that "it is crucial that social partners continue
to meet their responsibilities."


However, employment researcher Andrew Watt at the European Trade
Union Institute for Research, Education and Health and Safety
warned that the ECB's wage concerns could be overblown.


"We expect to see a slight increase in the pace of nominal wage
growth but not such that it would have inflationary
implications," he told AFP.


Watt said inflation pressures from wages were low because unit
labour costs remained tame, worker productivity growth was set to
increase and most companies were reporting little trouble finding
qualified workers.


Despite his concerns about the inflation outlook, Trichet
predicted that price growth would slow in the coming months
before picking up again towards the end of the year.


"Annual inflation rates are likely to fall, during the spring and
summer before rising by the end of the year and hovering around
two percent," he said.


Trichet said that annual inflation was bound to fall in the
coming months because of comparisons with data from last year,
when headline inflation surged owing to an oil price spike.


However, Bank of America economist Gilles Moec and Holger
Schmieding said in a research note that the ECB would likely
discount the coming fall in inflation in its interest rate
deliberations since it was mainly due to how the rate is
calculated rather than the underlying trend.


"The very fact that the ECB is now drawing attention to the
likely drop in headline inflation this summer makes it less
likely that the ECB will be swayed very much if and when
inflation indeed declines," they said.


"The likely sharp decline in headline inflation between April and
August could strengthen our call that the ECB will be on hold at
3.75 percent in June and reach 4.0 percent only after the summer
break," they said.


Eurozone inflation held steady at 1.8 percent in February, the
most recent month for which official figures have been published.

