

First a plane crash, then a mining disaster, then a major fire at
an old people's home: Russia, the world's biggest country, is
looking dangerously accident prone.


Wednesday was a national day of mourning for the 176 victims of
the three tragedies -- all occuring within four days -- but also
a moment for soul searching.


"Human life in Russia is much cheaper than in Western countries,"
social affairs commentator Yuliya Latynina told AFP.


Indeed, natural and man-made disasters can seem unstoppable in
this vast land of extremes.


Despite run-away profits from oil and natural gas exports, a
Russian man is doomed, on average, to die at 59. The population
is plummeting by three quarters of a million annually.


Many analysts, including Latynina, blame a steady breakdown of
Russia's once formidable Soviet-era infrastructure.


"The fact that three catastrophes of such scale happened one
after another is no coincidence," the daily Vremya Novostei said.


"The only thing that can explain such regular occurrences of
'unintentional' massive loss of human lives is the breakdown of
state administration and regulation."


That deterioration, affecting everything from medical services to
aircraft fleets, was on show during Tuesday's horrific fire in
the southern Krasnodar region, in which 63 people, many of them
elderly invalids, perished.


Multiple violations of safety regulations had made the state-run
home a death trap. The recent closure of a local fire station
meant firemen based in a neighbouring town took an hour to
arrive.


And Boris Kagarlitsky, a sociologist at the Institute for
Problems of Globalisation, said Russia would likely be holding
such mourning days again.


"It's a question of wear and tear. No one has done anything about
repairing, replacing or renewing equipment or buildings since the
1980s," he said. "The current economic growth actually aggravates
the situation because growth takes place on half-rotten
foundations."


Particular concern over air safety was underlined again last
Saturday when a passenger jet crash in the central city of Samara
killed six people.


Last year, 33 aviation incidents were recorded, resulting in 318
deaths -- a sixfold increase over 2005. Senior government
officials openly admit that pilots are under-trained and air
fleets under-equipped.


But analysts also highlight a factor even more pervasive than
physical decay -- Russians' own capacity for self-destruction.


This is a country where alcohol poisoning alone kills about
40,000 people a year, compared to a few hundred in the United
States.


And although the Siberian mine where 107 people died after an
underground gas explosion had been fitted out with modern
equipment, miners there have told AFP that the pressure to make
profits often meant ignoring safety rules altogether.


"This is not just a question of negligence concerning the lives
of others, but their own," Latynina said.

