

Zimbabwe won the toss and chose to field in the World Cup Group D
match against Pakistan on Wednesday at Sabina Park.


But the game was overshadowed by the shock news that Sunday's
death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was being treated as
suspicious.


Pakistan lost their World Cup opener against West Indies by 54
runs last Tuesday, and then to Ireland last Saturday by three
wickets to make an early exit from the competition.


The ICC confirmed early on Wednesday that the match would go
ahead, following a meeting between the Pakistan team management,
officials from the Jamaica police force, the ICC, and Cricket
World Cup organising committee.


"The Pakistan management indicated they were comfortable with the
arrangements surrounding the team and that the match would take
place," an official statement said.


The match began at 1430 GMT and was preceded by a minute's
silence, as a mark of respect for Woolmer.


Local police officials on Tuesday night said they are now
treating the death of Woolmer as 'suspicious'.


"Having met with the pathologist, other medical personnel, and
investigators, there is now sufficient information to continue a
full investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death
of Mr. Woolmer which we are now treating as 'suspicious'," said
Deputy Police Commissioner Mark Shields at the Jamaica Pegasus
Hotel, where the team is staying.


Woolmer died on Sunday, a after Pakistan lost to Ireland by three
wickets to make an early exit from the competition.


For Wednesday's match, Zimbabwe made one change to their line-up,
bringing back Gary Brent for Anthony Ireland.


Pakistan showed two changes, with Shahid Afridi and Danish
Kaneria coming into the side for Mohammad Hafeez and Azhar
Mahmood.


Zimbabwe tied their opening match with Ireland last Thursday
before losing to West Indies by six wickets on Monday, and they
require a victory to have a chance of qualification for the Super
Eight stage.


Pakistan: Inzamam-ul-Haq (captain), Imran Nazir, Shahid Afridi,
Younis Khan, Mohammad Yousuf, Shoaib Malik, Kamran Akmal,
Mohammad Sami, Iftikhar Anjum, Umar Gul, Danish Kaneria.


Zimbabwe: Prosper Utseya (captain), Vusimuzi Sibanda, Friday
Kasteni, Justice Chibhabha, Brendon Taylor, Stuart Matsikenyeri,
Sean Williams, Elton Chigumbura, Gary Brent, Tawanda Mupariwa,
Christopher Mpofu.


Umpires: Brian Jerling (RSA) and Simon Taufel (AUS); TV Replays:
Ian Gould (ENG), Reserve: Billy Bowden (NZL)


Match referee: Chris Broad (ENG)

