

Czech Republic President Vaclav Klaus has challenged the science
behind global warming and compared "ambitious environmentalism"
to communism in testimony to the U.S Congress released on
Wednesday.


Klaus says in a letter to be read before a panel of the U.S.
Congress holding hearings on global warming that there are "too
many uncertainties in scientific debates on climate change".


He also called arguments attributing climate change to human
activities "dangerous" and wrote that "Communism was replaced by
the threat of ambitious environmentalism".


"Mankind has already accumulated tragic experience with one very
proud intellectual stream that claimed that it knew how to manage
society better than spontaneous market forces. It was communism
and it failed, leaving behind millions of victims."


Klaus recently visited the United States, and made similar
statements on climate change during his stay.


His letter was a response to questions posed to him by the
congressional panel. In it he said that a "media-driven hysteria"
has harmed discussion on the environment and that there may be
benefits to climate change.


"While some deserts may get larger and some ocean shores flooded,
enormous parts of the earth -- up until now empty because of
their severe, cold climate -- may become fertile areas able to
accommodate millions of people," he said.


He urged leaders to "resist environmentalist calls for new
policies" and said it is "impossible to control natural factors
causing climate change."


Klaus said the imposition of heavy environmental regulations
would keep poorer countries from competing economically.


"Therefore, the moral obligation of the developed countries is
not to introduce large emissions reduction schemes," he said.


A United Nations panel said last month that human activity was
almost certain to blame for global warming and warned that the
Earth's average surface temperature could rise between 1.1 and
6.4 degrees C by 2100.


The panel's findings were in keeping with a growing body of
scientific research concerning global warming.

