

England wicket-keeper Paul Nixon insists the team will be a
tighter-knit World Cup unit following the controversy that saw
several players disciplined for late-night drinking.


Nixon was one of six players fined for staying out until the
early hours of Saturday morning following England's six-wicket
defeat by New Zealand in their opening Group C match here Friday.


"I think anything like this brings guys together," Nixon said
Wednesday.


"There's a lot of honesty and openness in the dressing room and
that's important going forward."


He added: Obviously I've apologised to (coach) Duncan Fletcher
for being out too late after a game and we've moved on as a team
and Duncan's accepted that.


"I had a reasonably quiet night but stayed out too long in the
public domain. I've learnt my lesson, held my hands up,
apologised and we'll take it from there.


"Cricket is a game that can kick you in the backside at any stage
if you don't stay focused and it's important we stay focused and
move forward from what's happened. We've got to take every game
as a huge event and try to win this World Cup."


England are now involved in a shoot-out with Kenya, who they play
on Saturday, for the second qualifying spot alongside New Zealand
that would see them into the second phase, Super Eight stage.


And Nixon said England could take heart from the way in which the
Black Caps thrashed Kenya by 148 runs on Tuesday.


"Every game is a tricky game. New Zealand and ourselves are very
closely matched and we'll be doing our homework."


One concern for England is the fitness of captain Michael
Vaughan.


The Yorkshire batsman reinjured the troublesome right knee that
kept him out of action for most of last year while tripping on a
pot hole during fielding practice on Tuesday.


But Nixon insisted: "Michael had a little trip on a sprinkler but
he's fine, he's 100 percent."


The 36-year-old Leicestershire keeper, who only made his England
debut during the team's recent tri-series triumph in Australia,
said he'd been happy with the form that saw him score a gutsy 42
not out in England's six-wicket defeat by New Zealand.


"I'm very pleased. Obviously, it's all about the team winning but
I'm happy I've performed well so far in the World Cup. In
Australia, I under-performed."


Nixon said he drew insipartion from a couple of former England
glovemen in Jack Russell and Alec Stewart.


"Jack Russell for me was head and shoulders above the rest. His
technical ability and his performances under pressure in big
games were exceptional."


He went on to stress that keepers were now judged on their run-
scoring ability as well as their work behind the stumps.


"The modern game has really dictated that. Alec Stewart and
(Australia's) Adam Gilchrist have taken it to a new level.
(Kumar) Sangakkara is playing beautifully. It is very important.
Everbody now wants dual cricketers."


Nixon also paid tribute to Bob Woolmer, the former Pakistan
coach, and ex- England all-rounder, who died suddenly on Sunday.


"I knew Bob very well. I spent a lot of time in Cape Town, I was
coaching in the townships and Bob was instrumental in my early
career with some great advice and some hard work in the nets.
It's just terrible news for all of us."


Police in Jamaica on Wednesday said that the 58-year-old death's
was being treated as suspicious.

