

The grand piano used by Polish composer Frederic Chopin on his
last concert tour in 1848 has been discovered in a collection
housed in an English country house, the man who bought it told
AFP on Wednesday.


The instrument, manufactured in Paris by Chopin's friend Camille
Pleyel, was bought from a dealer for 2,000 pounds (4,000 dollars)
by Alec Cobbe in 1988.


The British collector knew it was the type of piano played by
Chopin but had no idea it was the actual one until researcher
Jean-Jacques Eigeldinger ploughed through the Pleyel ledgers and
found the serial number.


"It was a major surprise, it was astonishing," Cobbe told AFP.


"Pleyel pianos in England are very rare. I spent 15 years looking
for one, bought the first one I had the opportunity to buy and
it's turned out to be an absolute knockout!"


It is now in the Cobbe Collection at the National Trust-run
Hatchlands estate, southwest of London.


Chopin, born in 1810, moved to Paris in 1831 but left for London
in 1848. He brought with him the Pleyel piano which he had
personally selected and was made two years earlier.


Chopin composed, practised and performed on the instrument and
played it on what turned out to be his final concert tour before
he succumbed to pulmonary tuberculosis.


"There's even a watercolour in Chopin's room in Paris which I
used to point at and say, 'Look, he even had the same model of
piano as the one I've got' -- and it turns out that it is the
piano in the painting," Cobbe said.


The discovery might change the way fans assess Chopin's music now
that they can hear it played on the actual piano it was
originally played on, he added.


"They're very different from modern pianos. There have been
recordings of Chopin's work on Pleyel pianos, but not on his
own," Cobbe said.


"The notes on a Pleyel decay more quickly which gives a very
different texture to the music.


"It's more lively in a way. A modern piano with its very long
sustaining notes has the effect of smoothing out the sound.


"I play it for Chopin all the time. You couldn't have a more
perfect sound, it suits the music so well.


"Instead of using it as a general instrument for 19th-century
music, we will now treat it with immense reverence and respect
and use it for only Chopin-related concerts."


Cobbe said he didn't know how much the piano would be worth now.


"I really wouldn't have a clue but it would be valuable, I'm sure
of that," he said.


The piano is on display at the National Trust-run 18th Century
Hatchlands Park mansion as part of the Cobbe Collection Trust
which boasts the world's largest collection of famous composer-
related keyboard instruments.


The collection reopens to the public on April 1 and Cobbe will
play Chopin's piano during a talk on April 19.

