

British troops began withdrawing from Bosnia on Wednesday after
15 years of helping to keep the peace in the war-torn Balkan
country.


"We have got about a 100 soldiers leaving today," British
Lieutenant Helen Munro told AFP, adding the first group was
mostly from the Welsh Guards infantry regiment.


The pull-out of the entire British contingent of 600 troops was
announced last month as part of the European Union's plans to cut
numbers of EUFOR peacekeepers in Bosnia to 2,500 from 6,500.


EUFOR, which took over from a NATO peacekeeping mission in 2004,
is charged with military tasks set out in the Dayton peace
accords that ended Bosnia's 1992-1995 war.


The war cost more than 200,000 lives and left the country
bitterly divided along ethnic lines, with highly autonomous Serb
and Muslim-Croat entities.


Most of the British contingent has been based in Banja Luka, the
administrative centre of the Serbs' Republika Srpska.


More British troops will leave on Saturday but a few will remain
to deal with the actual closure of their base, Munro said, adding
that it was unclear how long this would take.


British soldiers first arrived in Bosnia as part of a UN
peacekeeping mission at the beginning of the war. "I think that
soldiers ... are conscious that they are sort of part of
history," Munro said.


But the overall UN mission failed to stop some of the worst
blood-letting in Europe since World War II, notably the 1995
massacre of some 8,000 Muslims in the eatern town of Srebrenica,
which was supposed to be UN safe zone.


Dutch troops were stationed at Srebrenica and tasked with
protecting the civilian population, but their rules of engagement
meant they had no power to prevent the Serbs' taking the town.


Britain's senior officer in Bosnia, General Cristopher Murray,
said earlier this month that regardless of the British
withdrawal, other EUFOR troops would continue the hunt for war
crimes fugitives who have eluded NATO and EU forces for more than
a decade.


"Please don't think for a moment that we have forgotten about
this, because a very important mission for EUFOR that remains
will be to push hard to secure arrest of these people," he told
AFP.


The two most wanted fugitives are wartime Bosnian Serb leader
Radovan Karadzic and his army chief Ratko Mladic, seen as two of
the main architects of the Serbs' brutal campaign of "ethnic
cleansing."


Karadzic is widely believed to be hiding in Montenegro or Serb-
controlled parts of Bosnia while Mladic is said to have found
sanctuary in Serbia.

