

As global pressure mounted on Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe
over a brutal political crackdown, analysts said Wednesday that
the veteran strongman would never relinquish power without a
fight.


Criticism of the Zimbabwean regime's violent campaign against the
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) has broadened and
deepened in recent days, with the United States defying expulsion
threats against foreign diplomats and labelling Mugabe a
"desperate dictator".


But the 83-year-old president has remained defiant, and world-
wide media coverage of beatings meted out to opposition leaders
might in fact work in his favour by instilling terror in the
hearts of opposition voters, some observers say.


"I don't think this signals the end of the line for Mugabe,"
analyst Moeletsi Mbeki of the Johannesburg-based South African
Institute of International Affairs told AFP.


"I don't think he thinks of himself being in power because of
public support. He stays in power through the use of terror."


Zimbabwean political commentator Bill Saidi said the latest round
of criticism would make some in Mugabe's ruling ZANU PF party
think about "where they are going".


"But Mugabe is determined to go down fighting. At 83 he has lost
the flexibility to change his stand," Saidi said.


John Makumbe, a political scientist at the University of
Zimbabwe, said Mugabe was undoubtedly in a difficult position but
agreed that there was little chance of him feeling forced to
quit.


"The ZANU PF government is between a rock and a hard place with
criticism coming not from its traditional critics but from
African countries and the African Union," he said.


"We might see relations with the MDC thawing as a result of the
criticism but whether this will lead to dialogue remains to be
seen."


Zimbabwe's junior information minister Bright Matonga said the
government "will not be intimidated by its enemies," among whom
he cited US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister
Tony Blair.


"This is a personal vendetta they have against our president and
they think we will chicken out. We are a sovereign nation,"
Matonga told AFP.


The US ambassador to Harare, Christopher Dell, labelled Mugabe "a
man in a corner" on Tuesday as US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice urged South Africa to back international efforts to end the
crackdown on political opposition.


Dell said Pretoria's policy of "quiet diplomacy" towards Zimbabwe
had failed and needed to be revised.


"It has not changed Robert Mugabe's behaviour in any way. The
time is right to intensify engagement and to get more directly
involved with the Zimbabwean government," Dell said.


Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa likened Zimbabwe to a "sinking
Titanic" and urged a fresh start in African countries'
negotiations with Harare.


South Africa recently called for Zimbabwe to respect the rights
of all its citizens but failed to match the expressions of
outrage from other world capitals.


Mugabe last week warned diplomats to "behave properly or else we
kick them out of our country". This was after foreign
condemnation of the recent arrest and assault of several leaders
of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change.


The United States said last week it was considering widening a
program of bilateral sanctions already in place against Mugabe,
who has ruled since independence in 1980.

