

A rebel leader from Sudan's war-torn Darfur region said in an
interview here that the UN must either protect the area's
residents or arm them so they can defend themselves.


"Either UN forces come to protect our people or the international
community has to arm us to defend our people from genocide,"
Abdul Wahid Mohammed Nur said in an interview with AFP on
Tuesday. "These are the only two options."


Nur, who is on a visit to Europe to draw attention to the
situation in Darfur, is leader of one faction of the Sudan
Liberation Movement. His faction has refused to sign a peace
agreement with the Sudanese government.


Another faction of the group, which is the largest rebel movement
in Darfur, signed a peace deal with Khartoum in May 2006. Nur
called the leader of that faction, Minni Minnawi, "a puppet" of
the Sudanese government.


"We refuse to sign an agreement for security reasons, as long as
there is no clear disarmament of Janjaweeds," he said, referring
to the government proxy militia in Darfur.


"They committed crimes, killed tens of hundreds of thousands of
our people, raped hundreds of thousands of our people, burnt
hundreds of villages, committed genocide."


The war in Darfur erupted in February 2003 when rebels from
minority tribes in the vast western province took up arms to
demand an equal share of national resources. That prompted a
heavy-handed crackdown from Sudanese government forces and
Janjaweed militia.


According to UN estimates, 200,000 people have been killed and
2.5 million displaced.


A UN security council resolution in August called for the gradual
deployment of a joint UN-African Union force of 20,000 to the
region to bolster the under- equipped AU force deployed about
three years ago.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir rejected the resolution. In
November, he agreed to a compromise plan for a hybrid AU-UN
peacekeeping operation, but has since backed away from the
agreement.


"Who is going to disarm them? The government who has armed them?"
Nur said of the Janjaweed. "They can only be disarmed by an
international force with a clear and strong mandate."


Nur, who is also a lawyer, warned that history would judge
Western countries if they did not act on Darfur.


"I do appreciate the international community for their
resolutions, but action speaks louder than words," he said.

