

European Union sanctions against Zimbabwe, which British Prime
Minister Tony Blair is to urge his EU partners to stiffen, were
first put in place in 2002.


The measures include a travel ban and assets freeze on government
and other officials, and an embargo on any arms, training or
assistance that could be used for internal repression.


They were imposed on President Robert Mugabe's regime after the
long-serving ruler won elections in 2002, which the opposition
and foreign observers say were rigged.


The measures target "the government of Zimbabwe and persons who
bear wide responsibility for serious violations of human rights
and of the freedom of opinion, of association and of peaceful
assembly."


The EU lists 125 people subject to a travel ban and assets
freeze, ranging from Mugabe and his wife to current and former
ministers, through to intelligence, police and election
officials, as well as governing party politburo members.


"The objective of these restrictive measures is to encourage the
persons targeted to reject policies that lead to the suppression
of human rights, of the freedom of expression and of good
governance."


The embargo also "imposed a prohibition on the supply of arms and
related material, on the provision of relation technical training
or assistance and on the supply of equipment that might be used
for internal repression."


The sanctions were extended last month until February 2008.


Other countries have imposed their own sanctions on Zimbabwe,
including Australia, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland and the
United States.


The Commonwealth, which unites 53 mainly former British colonies,
has also imposed sanctions.


Mugabe pulled Zimbabwe out of the organisation in December 2003
after its membership had been suspended because of the
controversial presidential election.


Despite the sanctions, Mugabe was able to attend the funeral for
Pope John Paul II in April 2005. He has also been able to attend
an FAO summit in Rome and a Franco-African summit in Paris.

