

J-League champions Urawa Red Diamonds came back from two goals
down to draw with Sydney FC as Kawasaki Frontale's blushes were
spared by a late own goal in the AFC Champions League on
Wednesday.


Sydney, one of the favourites as Australian sides debut in the
competition, looked on course for a second win in two group
matches when they found themselves two-up after 23 minutes.


But Urawa pulled one back through Robson Ponte in the 30th minute
before Sydney 'keeper Clint Bolton spilled the ball in front of
Yuchiro Nagai, allowing him to poke home a second-half equaliser
at 2-2.


Urawa and Sydney are level on points at the top of Group E with
four rounds remaining ahead of Persik Kediri, who stunned bottom-
placed Shanghai Shenhua.


A second-half strike from Persik's Bertha Yuana condemned
Shanghai to a shock defeat and their second of the competition
after losing to Sydney on the opening day.


Kawasaki Frontale, runners-up to Urawa in the J-League, also came
from behind but in very different circumstances as they needed an
own goal to scrape a 1-1 draw with lowly Bangkok University.


Trailing from Suriya Domtaisong's early opener, Frontale
struggled to break down the visitors until Patiparn Phetphun put
a cross past his own 'keeper 12 minutes from time.


Frontale top Group F with the same points as Chunnam Dragons, who
also drew with Bangkok but got their campaign back on track on
with a 2-0 win against Arema Malang on Wednesday.


Kim Tae-su and Sandro Cardoso were both on target in the second
half to see off some determined resistance from the Indonesians.


In Group C, Uzbek side Neftchi maintained their 100 percent
record with a 2-1 win over Syria's Al Karama thanks to Nosirbek
Otakuziev's 77th-minute winner.


A-League outfit Adelaide United enjoyed a successful first ever
foray onto Asian soil, beating Vietnamese club Dong Tam Long An
2-0 in Group G.


Shandong Luneng top the group with maximum points after their 2-1
win over South Korea's Seongnam Chunma.


Seongnam's Cho Byung-kuk cancelled out Shandong's opener late in
the second half only for Wang Yongpo to hit the winner a minute
later.


Among Wednesday's later fixtures Al Ain, winners of the inaugural
competition in 2003, are in Syria against Al Ittihad and double
semi-finalists Pakhtakor play Al Kuwait away.


The group matches are played from March 7 to May 23, when the
competition pauses for the Asian Cup finals.


The winner rakes in 600,000 US dollars and earns a place in the
World Club Championships in December.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors of South Korea have a bye to
the quarter- finals in September.

