

Holidaymakers may be ruining their favourite destinations through
pollution and greenhouse gases, making the tourism industry one
of the world's worst polluters, experts say.


A flight to that pristine beach and a few nights in an air-
conditioned hotel room, when repeated on the mass scale of modern
tourism, is all it takes to put the holiday business on a
polluting par with heavy industries.


"Tourism is unfortunately one of the vectors of (climate) change
at the moment and contributes, through its excesses, to the
process of global warming," World Tourism Organisation (WTO)
director general Francesco Frangialli told an international
conference on meteorology in Madrid this week.


In 2006, 842 million people took a holiday in a foreign country
and 40 percent of them flew to their destinations. That's 336
million people, or more than the population of the United States,
taking trips which spew greenhouse gases that fuel global
warming.


Total air transport still only accounts for two percent of carbon
dioxide (CO2), the principal greenhouse gas, in the atmosphere,
but its contribution is growing and tourism is one of the driving
forces behind rising passenger numbers, Frangialli said.


He said 1.1 billion tourists were expected to take trips abroad
in 2010, and 1.6 billion by 2020.


At the same time, tourism itself was facing "tragedy" if climate
change continued unabated, Frangialli said.


As tourists pollute their way around the world, popular
destinations such as the pristine but low-lying Maldive islands
in the Indian Ocean may disappear as sea levels rise.


Tanzania's famous lakes, a staple of the African tourism
industry, will dry up. In Europe's alps the ski season will
become shorter, the pistes fewer and harder to find.


The UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warned in
February that by 2100, global average surface temperatures could
rise by between 1.1 C (1.98 F) and 6.4 C (11.52 F) compared to
1980-99 levels.


The most likely surface temperature rise will be between 1.8 and
4.0 degrees C, it said.


According to a French weather expert, a temperature rise of 1.8
degrees C would translate to 40 fewer days of snowfall at mid-
level altitudes of 1,500 metres (4,950 feet).


The WTO has backed an EU proposal to include air travel by 2011
or 2012 in limitations on emissions and creating transferable
carbon accounts in a bid to limit the greenhouse effect.


Such measures would encourage airlines to put pressure on
manufacturers to produce aircraft which are more fuel-efficient,
Frangialli said.


That could mean higher air fares, but some in the travel industry
believe tourists would be ready to pay a little more to protect
the places they love.


"We are responsible for emissions, we are the polluters and we
are prepared to pay for this," said German tour operator Michael
Iwand.


"But it's important to be careful about additional costs for
plane tickets because consumers remain very sensitive to price."

