

Any undisclosed material from police interviews with Britain's
Prince Charles should be released before an inquest into the
death of Princess Diana can take place, a coroner was told
Wednesday.


At a preliminary hearing to the inquest, lawyer Michael Mansfield
told coroner Lady Elizabeth Butler-Sloss it was vital to see all
documents that went into compiling a British police report into
the 1997 Paris car crash.


Mansfield is representing Mohammed al-Fayed, the owner of
Harrod's department store in west London, whose son Dodi was
killed alongside the princess and their French chauffeur, Henri
Paul.


Al-Fayed senior has refused to accept the conclusions of the
British police report by Lord John Stevens which was published
last December.


He has dismissed its conclusions that the crash was a tragic
accident caused by a drunk driver travelling too fast saying it
was a cover-up and "garbage".


The Egyptian-born tycoon maintains the couple were killed as part
of a British establishment plot by Queen Elizabeth II's husband,
Prince Philip, and the security services opposed to her
potentially marrying a Muslim.


Mansfield told London's High Court on Wednesday there was much in
Stevens' report that could be challenged and it was necessary to
refer to unused documents, including notes from interviews with
Diana's ex-husband.


Until that was done, he could not elaborate on his client's
claims of an assassination plot, and allegations that Diana was
pregnant with Dodi's child at the time they died.


Mansfield called for the release of "all statements, pre-
statement notes, interview notes, notes taken or made even when
no statement was given, messages, memoranda, actions,
correspondence, exhibits and other documents underpinning the
material referred to in the report".


He also wants access to "all material" relating to the failed
prosecution of Diana's former butler, Paul Burrell, and the fears
she allegedly expressed to him about her future safety and the
attitude towards her of the royal family.


There was a need for "openness, fairness and transparency" in
such a high- profile case and to do so would "allay public fears
and restore public confidence in procedures", Mansfield said in a
written submission.


"There can be no doubt that the 'relevant facts' which must be
fully, fairly and fearlessly investigated and exposed to public
scrutiny include those matters related to the issue of whether
there was a conspiracy to murder," he added.


At a previous hearing on March 5, Butler-Sloss cast doubt on
Fayed's allegations, saying she had not yet seen a "shred of
evidence" to suggest Diana was the victim of an establishment
plot.


The inquest proper is due to start in October.

