

Most of the pollution blighting Hong Kong is produced in the city
itself rather than neighbouring southern China, according to a
study released Wednesday which contradicts previous research.


Regional sources only cause poor air quality 36 percent of the
time, said the new research conducted by the Institute for the
Environment at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and
local think-tank Civic Exchange.


The report said previous studies, such as a 1999 government-
sponsored joint study with Guangdong on regional air pollution,
found that southern China accounted for more than 80 percent of
regional emissions.


Those findings had wrongly led many to believe there was little
Hong Kong could do to address the growing air pollution problem,
environmentalists said.


"These (new) results show that there is no reason for Hong Kong
to feel debilitated when it comes to improving our air quality,"
said Alexis Lau, the lead scientist who conducted the study.


"The regional pollution is important and regional cooperation is
key but there is a lot that is within our control.


"More than 50 percent of the time, emissions from local sources
dominate the air pollution in Hong Kong," he said.


The pollution problem has become so bad that business groups have
taken up the issue warning that the unhealthy air is deterring
investment and tourists.


Surveys by green groups show visitors are increasingly suffering
from smog- related illnesses and lodging complaints about the
poor air quality.


Environmentalists believe that pollution in the territory could
be cut down through reduction of emissions from local vehicles,
marine traffic and power plants.


"Hong Kong now has no excuse not to take stronger, faster action
to cleanup its emissions," Civic Exchange head Christine Loh
said, calling for more vigorous measures to combat the problem.


In response, the government said the report is consistent with
its own findings but said regional pollution sources vary at
different times of the year.


Regional sources of pollution from southern China could rise to
70 percent of the total in winter, the environmental protection
department said, while it renewed its pledge to combat air
pollution.

