

Participants in the World Water Assembly, gathered in Brussels
this week, called for water to be recognised as a basic right and
control over it to be kept out of the hands of private
enterprise.


At a meeting just before World Water Day on Thursday, elected
officials, members of civil society and non-governmental
organisations underlined their concern that water was
increasingly a source of strategic and economic conflict.


"Access to fresh drinking water for everyone, in all our
countries, is a fundamental right. For us, water is life," said
Bolivia's minister for water Abel Mamani.


"Establishing a right to water, therefore is another way of
recognising the right to life already enshrined by the United
Nations," he said. "Recognise water as a human right!"


The United Nations estimates that, by 2025, two-thirds of the
planet's population will be living with water stress, with North
Africa, the Middle East and West Asia the worst-afflicted
regions.


Experts say global warming will take its toll on supplies.


In a message to the assembly, gathered at the European Parliament
in Brussels, Italian Environment Minister Alfonso Pecoraro also
underlined the need to recognise this "semi-precious" resource as
a "public good".


Indeed the assembly set the international recognition of the
unique status of water as its primary goal.


"Our target is December 10, 2008 -- the 60th anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights -- for the UN's human
rights council to recognise water as a human right," said
Riccardo Petrella from the World Water Contract.


He said that water "is essential for all forms of life" and
called for public service providers to unite and bring an end to
its "marketing".


"Public water suppliers account for 80 percent of world water
supplies and they are letting the private sector, which controls
20 percent, call the shots," he told the assembly, which met over
three days.


Christiane Franck, the head of Belgium's public water works
Vivaqua, said "everything possible must be done to ensure that
the issue of water is placed, or returned, into the hands of the
public."


In fact, 90 percent of the world's waters are in public hands but
the participants believed that this was not enough.


They also argued that the costs for providing water were not high
enough to warrant investment from private enterprise.


The World Water Assembly estimated that "less than 50 billion
euros (66 billion dollars) per year" to provide the vital
quantity of 50 litres of water per day "to each of the 1.2
billion humans who do not have it."


It suggested that the money could be raised through new methods
like taxes on airline tickets, park operators or on excess water
consumption in richer countries where it is more plentiful.


The assembly now plans to set its demands in a letter to heads of
state and government and the United Nations in an effort to
convince them of the need to establish this new "human right".

