

French presidential contender Francois Bayrou lamented in an
interview published Wednesday that he was coming under a daily
onslaught from both frontrunners in the campaign.


"I have the impression that attacking me is for them a sort of
shared programme," said Bayrou, the leader of the small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) party.


Bayrou, whose public opinion rating has risen spectacularly over
the past month, defended his vision of a national unity
government made up of politicians from the left and the right, in
the interview to the popular Le Parisien newspaper.


The Socialist Party and the governing Union for a Popular
Movement "claim every day that they will never be able to work
together, except when it comes to shooting down my candidacy," he
said.


A former education minister, Bayrou has climbed in the polls from
14 percent in mid-February to 20.5 percent, behind Socialist
Segolene Royal who stands at 25.5 percent, according to the
Ipsos/Dell poll published on Wednesday.


But recent polls have showed him holding steady at that level.


Nicolas Sarkozy, the candidate of the UMP who is due to step down
from his post as interior minister on Monday, still leads in the
first round of voting with 29.5 percent.


But some polls have shown that Bayrou would beat Sarkozy if he
were to make it into the final runoff.


In the interview, Bayrou said his call for a government of the
center uniting like-minded politicians from the left and right
was striking a real chord with voters.


He responded to criticism from the Socialists that he was
offering an "illusion" to voters as a rightwinger posing as a man
of the center.


"Do you really think that they would be shooting at me like they
are if I were an illusion?  I am the only element of renewal and
transformation in the political landscape," he said.


Sarkozy on Tuesday criticised Bayrou as a weathervane and
political opportunist.


"You think he is on the right, and he has moved to the left. You
think he is on the left and he has moved to the right," Sarkozy
said during a campaign swing outside of Paris.


"That's not how you lead the world's fifth most powerful
country."


The first round of voting in the presidential election is set for
April 22 and a runoff is due on May 6 between the two top vote-
getters.

