

Canada's economy is in good shape and is able to withstand
external shocks, but productivity growth is slow and some
agricultural policies remain protectionist, the World Trade
Organisation said on Wednesday.


In its latest Trade Policy Review, the WTO said Canada's trade
regime had not changed significantly from the previous
examination in 2003.


"The outward-looking orientation of the regime has facilitated
the economy's successful adjustment to a number of external
shocks, and helps explain Canada's good economic performance,"
the WTO said.


However, it cautioned that "significant trade barriers still
protect certain agricultural activities," not least in the agri-
food sector that accounted for 8.1 percent of GDP in 2004.


Federal and provincial government financial support to the agri-
food sector was 7.4 billion Canadian dollars (6.4 billion US
dollars, 4.8 billion euros) in 2004-2005, the WTO said.


Preliminary estimates predict support to rise to 7.7 billion
Canadian dollars in 2005/6.


The rise is mainly due to ad hoc payments linked to sanitary and
weather conditions, the WTO said.


Despite this, it noted that according to the Organisation for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Canada's
agricultural support remains below average and is "relatively
less trade distorting."


Canada is a member of the Cairns Group of agricultural-exporting
countries, along with Australia, Brazil and New Zealand, which
campaigns within the WTO for the elimination of export subsidies
notably by the US and EU.


Trade and foreign investment are particularly important for
Canada, with the goods and services trade equivalent to nearly 72
percent of GDP in 2005, the WTO noted.


The United States remains the main trading partner, although
there has been some diversification of imports reflecting the
growing importance of China as a supplier, the trade body said.


One fly in the ointment is Canada's relatively slow productivity
growth, which the WTO suggested is possibly due to a lack of
"capital deepening," or an increase in the rate of capital
produced in the economy per worker, over the 1990s.


Productivity growth could be boosted by eliminating barriers to
agricultural imports, cutting restrictions on foreign investment,
minimising subsidies that distort competition, and dismantling
obstacles to internal trade, the WTO said.

