

Beijing's eye-catching National Stadium will be unveiled in April
next year during test events for the 2008 Olympic Games,
officials said here Wednesday.


The stadium, known as the "Bird's Nest" because of its intricate
design of interwoven steel, is set to be the centre-piece of the
August 8-24 Beijing Games.


Seating more than 90,000, it will open for business on April
18-19 to host an International Amateur Athletics Federation race-
walking competition, one of 42 test events planned ahead of the
Olympics.


The nearby National Aquatics Centre, known as the Water Cube
because of its blue outer shell, will stage its first event, the
China Open swimming competition, in February.


Yang Shu'an, executive vice-president of the Beijing Olympic
organising committee, said 26 test events will be held in 2007
and 16 in 2008.


"We have to ensure that all the sports facilities will fulfil the
requirements of each individual sports federation and that
everything is in working order as far as the hosting parties are
concerned," he told a press briefing.


"The minimum requirements would be to ensure that everything is
in working order including venue equipment, competition schedules
and statting (compiling statistics) -- these elements are very
basic."


More than 10,000 athletes, 400 international officials, 700
international technical officials and 1,500 domestic technical
officials are expected to work on the test events, he said.


This year's events include the World Junior Rowing Championships
and the World Junior Wrestling Championships, both in August, the
Modern Pentathlon World Cup final and the Beijing Triathlon World
Cup, both in September, and the table tennis Pro-Tour grand
finals in December.


Next year Beijing's Water Cube hosts a diving World Cup and a
synchronised swimming Olympic qualifier in April. The city will
also hold the FIE Fencing World Championships in April, a
shooting World Cup event the same month, and the China Open
athletics meeting in May.

