

French President Jacques Chirac gave his backing Wednesday to
right-wing presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy, announcing
that the interior minister would leave the government on March 26
to focus full-time on the race.


Chirac said he would give his "vote and support" to the 52-year-
old Sarkozy, as the candidate of the governing right-wing Union
for a Popular Movement (UMP) which he founded in 2002, in a
televised statement.


"Five years ago, I called for the creation of the UMP to allow
France to pursue a rigorous policy of modernisation. In all its
diversity, this political movement chose to support the candidacy
of Nicolas Sarkozy in the presidential election, because of his
qualities."


"Naturally, I will therefore bring him my vote and my support,"
Chirac said.


Polls show Sarkozy currently leading the race to succeed Chirac
in the April-May election, ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal,
53, and the centrist Francois Bayrou, 55. Far-right leader Jean-
Marie Le Pen, 78, comes fourth, well ahead of the eight remaining
candidates.


Chirac, who ruled out seeking a third term just 10 days ago,
waited until the last possible moment to give his backing to
Sarkozy, a one-time protege who is campaigning for a "clean
break" with the policies of his government.


Despite their differences, Sarkozy had admitted that Chirac's
endorsement would "carry weight" with the electorate.


Sarkozy's five years at the interior ministry, from 2002 to 2004
and again from 2005 to 2007, did more than anything in his
30-year career to shape his image as a tough-talking man of
action.


Royal's Socialist Party (PS) has accused Sarkozy of using his
powers as interior minister -- the number two position in the
French government -- to advance his campaign.


Sarkozy had dismissed the criticism, saying only that he would
step down before the start of the official campaign on April 9.
He is expected to be succeeded at the interior ministry by
Overseas Minister Francois Baroin, a protege of Chirac.


Sarkozy's record as interior minister is hotly disputed.


He claims major successes in driving down overall crime, which
has dropped 9.4 percent since 2002, by setting new targets for
police, and bringing in stiffer sentences for repeat young
offenders and measures such as electronic tagging.


But his critics accuse him of undermining community policing and
fanning tensions in France's tense suburbs by referring to young
troublemakers as "rabble" that should be "hosed down". They point
at conflicting figures suggesting that violent crime is actually
on the rise.


It was under Sarkozy's watch that riots broke out in late 2005 in
hundreds of mainly-immigrant suburbs, where his tough line on law
and order has made him deeply unpopular -- even though his
supporters credit him with ensuring not a single rioter was
injured in clashes with police.


His centrist rival Bayrou, who received a triumphant welcome
during a recent visit to a rough Paris suburb, rounded on
Sarkozy's record this week, echoing claims that minister has
become a persona non grata in the suburbs.


"Five years as interior minister, and he cannot even set foot in
France's suburbs," Bayrou said. "He said there would be no more
lawless neighbourhoods. Today there are entire districts where
the police are on orders not to enter."

