

The Italian defence ministry fears that a "dangerous precedent"
was set when journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed in
exchange for the release of five Taliban fighters, press reports
said Wednesday.


While Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi warmly thanked the
humanitarian agency Emergency for its efforts in obtaining
Mastrogiacomo's release, Defense Minister Arturo Parisi was less
sanguine, according to the daily Corriere della Sera.


Parisi said privately that "entrusting the negotiations to
(Emergency founder) Gino Strada was a serious mistake," Corriere
reported.


A defence ministry communique on the episode, issued 24 hours
after Mastrogiacomo's release on Monday, did not even refer to
Emergency.


Corriere said Parisi felt "the political price that we have
already paid could be much higher in the future" in Afghanistan,
where Italy has some 2,000 troops deployed in NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


The economic daily Il Sole-24 Ore said the defence minister
feared the prisoner exchange may have set "a dangerous
precedent."


Strada's request that Italian secret service operatives stay away
from the negotiations "damaged the state's image and sent a
dangerous message to the terrorists: 'Let's kidnap an Italian and
our demands will be met,'" Corriere said of Parisi's concern.


"After what happened, I wonder what spirit we will be able to
operate in," Parisi said privately, according to Corriere.


The daily La Stampa said the defence minister felt that accepting
the Taliban's conditions "made all Italians a priority target for
the warlords of Kabul."


Also Wednesday, Mastrogiacomo detailed his two-week ordeal in the
hands of the Taliban, calling his captors "without culture or
human experience."


"The Taliban are warriors first, people used to handling weapons,
using them, cleaning them, revering them," he said in a lengthy
account in his newspaper La Repubblica.


Weapons "were almost always their only friends," said the 52
-year-old veteran war correspondent.


"Cleaning their sole friend in life and battle was a ritual that
could take at least two hours a day," he wrote.


Mastrogiacomo described his captors, most between 20 and 25 years
old, "as poor young boys, without culture or human, sexual,
emotional or romantic experience."


They tried several times "sincerely" to convince him to convert
to Islam, he wrote.


The Taliban are hard to beat, Mastrogiacomo said. "They live on
the move all the time, they go home to their families once every
40 days. They have no salary and do everything for free. They
just like and enjoy fighting for their cause."


Mastrogiacomo, who was kidnapped March 4 with his Afghan driver
and interpreter, said Monday that he had witnessed the beheading
of the driver. The interpreter remains in captivity.

