

Former US Vice President Al Gore, the politician turned
preeminent environmentalist, issued a dire warning to Congress
Wednesday about what he called a "planetary emergency" caused by
global warming.


Fresh from winning an Oscar for his blockbuster climate change
documentary "An Inconvenient Truth," Gore called for urgent
congressional action to pass legislation to help reverse the
ravages of global warming, which he said "threatens the survival
of our civilization and the habitability of the earth."


And to underscore a growing consensus across America for his
views about endangered environment, Gore delivered to lawmakers
hundreds of thousands of emails from concerned Americans
supporting his call for action.


"There is a great deal of new momentum for action to solve the
climate crisis," he warned a joint hearing of three separate
House committees governing energy and environmental matters.


"Today I am here to deliver more than a half million messages to
Congress asking for real action on global warming," said the
former politician, who has transformed himself from failed
presidential candidate into the country's leading environmental
gadfly.


"Global warming is real, and human activity is the main cause,"
Gore lectured lawmakers, many of whom until recently had publicly
taken the opposite view.


His visit on Capitol Hill was a homecoming for the former
lawmaker form Tennessee, who served in both the House and Senate
before being elected former president Bill Clinton's vice
president in 1992.


The first president George Bush, father of the incumbent, once
mocked Gore as "ozone man" for what he deemed far-out
environmental views.


But in recent years, Gore's stock has risen as global warming has
become a front burner issue with growing numbers of Americans.


Speculation continues to swirl about his future political plans
-- specifically, whether he will choose to run again for the
White House he narrowly lost in 2000 to current US President
George W. Bush.


So far however, he has resisted calls to join the presidential
fray, professing himself to be satisfied with his calling as
environmental conscience.


Still, he has not ruled out taking another crack at running for
the White House, and has a series of high profile events and
honor, including his Oscar victory and a Nobel Peace Prize
nomination which make an ideal launching pad for a campaign.


Gore also is organizing a seven-continent musical series intended
to be a fundraiser for environmental causes and is planning a
blowout concert on the steps of the US Capitol this in July.

