

ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet defended the track record of
the euro since its launch in 1999 in the face of growing
criticism from French presidential candidates.


"The euro is positive, that's clear," the Frenchman told the
European Parliament's economic and monetary affairs committee in
Brussels, a month before the first round of French elections on
April 22.


"I wouldn't say that it's the best of all worlds," he said, but
stressed that "we've created more than 12 million jobs in the
eurozone in the euro's first eight years and we created three
million in the previous eight years."


"Critics of the euro would do well to meditate on the numbers,"
he advised amid attacks from presidential candidates that the ECB
focuses too much on price stability and not enough on jobs and
growth.


Rightwing frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and his Socialist rival
Segolene Royal have both targeted the ECB in their campaigns with
calls for a review of its mandate.


In the face of their criticism, Trichet, a former Bank of France
governor, renewed his "inflexible" support for the ECB's
independence and its credibility.


"The ECB is independent by the will of the European people," he
said. "All the public opinion surveys confirm that there is very
strong popular support" both for the ECB's independence and its
focus on price stability.


In the eyes of Royal and Sarkozy, the steady upward march in ECB
interest rates since December 2005 has boosted the value of the
euro against other currencies, hitting French exports on
international markets.


Sarkozy said that "the kidnapping of the euro has to stop."


Their attacks appeared to strike a sensitive chord with Trichet,
who stressed that "we are in a floating exchange rate system"
where currency rates are set by the market and not governments.


"It's only in France that the issue comes up regularly," he
lamented. "Everywhere else in Europe they know how things work."


Trichet dismissed recent personal attacks against members of the
ECB after Sarkozy last weekend laid into ECB vice president Lucas
Papademos, who he incorrectly identified as a former Greek
finance minister when in fact he was the head of the Greek
central bank head.


Sarkozy said that France does not have any "lessons" about fiscal
discipline to learn from a country which has been criticised for
its management of its public accounts, as is the case of Greece.


"These personal attacks, really, nobody understands them," said
Trichet.


The criticisms of the ECB have so far been limited to France with
both German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Commission
President Jose Manuel Barroso backing the central bank up.


Barroso said Wednesday on French television channel France 2: "We
cannot give precise instructions to the central bank because that
would throw the credibility of the euro, which is a great
European creation, into doubt."

