

A top US State Department official held fresh talks Wednesday in
Warsaw over a planned missile shield, as Russia's foreign
minister and a veteran Polish politician stepped up attacks on
the scheme.


US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried told Wednesday's
edition of the daily Gazeta Wyborcza that the proposed system,
which would involve the location of facilities in Poland and the
Czech Republic, was not just about protecting the United States.


"We want this system to also protect Europe. Security is an
indivisible issue for us," he said after a meeting Tuesday with
Defence Minister Aleksander Szczyglo.


But in Moscow, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said
Wednesday that the plan was being presented in such a way that
was "disrespectful to (US) partners in the EU and even in
relation to other members of NATO."


And Wednesday's edition of the Washington Post carried a scathing
attack from former Polish defence minister Radek Sikorski on the
way the United States had gone about selling the programme.


"Some genius at the State Department or the Pentagon sent the
first official note describing possible placement of the facility
with a draft reply attached -- a reply that contained a long list
of host countries' obligations and few corresponding US
commitments," said Sikorski in his opinion piece.


"This was particularly crass. If the Bush administration expects
Poles and Czechs to jump for joy and agree to whatever is
proposed, it's going to face a mighty crash with reality," he
added.


The United States wants to base 10 unarmed Interceptor missiles
in Poland and install a powerful radar in the Czech Republic.


This would be part of a defence shield that Washington says is
meant to guard against threats from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Parts of the shield are already in place in the United States,
Britain and Greenland, and the plan is to have the system fully
operational by 2011-2012.


But Sikorski said US proposals to use Eastern European bases had
heightened the "strategic stakes in the region."


Plans for Polish and Czech participation in the defence shield
could still be overruled by the two countries' "famously
independent parliaments", Sikorski added.


He counselled the United States to treat Prague and Warsaw as
equal partners at the bargaining table.


"The United States needs to once again see the world through the
eyes of its allies and offer them a partnership that enhances the
security of both."

