

Prime Minister Tony Blair said Wednesday Britain would urge the
European Union to impose tougher sanctions on Zimbabwe,
describing the situation there as "appalling, disgraceful and
utterly tragic."


"We will press the European Union to widen the political
sanctions that were introduced in 2002 and introduced very much
as a result of our prompting at the time," Blair told parliament
during his weekly question-and-answer session.


"That assets freeze and travel ban we will seek to extend as far
as we can."


Blair echoed Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett's view that, in
the light of growing concern at violence towards opposition
groups, action was needed from the United Nations Security
Council and the UN Human Rights Commission.


"We will be urging partners in both those institutions to come
out with strong statements against what is happening in Zimbabwe,
which is appalling, disgraceful and utterly tragic for the people
of Zimbabwe," he told lawmakers.


Belgium admitted Tuesday that a visa was issued by mistake to a
close aide of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, despite him
being on an EU blacklist and banned from travelling in the
27-country bloc.


Mugabe himself and his entourage are banned from travelling to
the EU under sanctions on Zimbabwe since 2002 for human rights
violations.


A diplomatic source in Brussels told AFP it was too soon to
determine whether member states would back further sanctions
against Zimbabwe.


But the source added: "Foreign ministers will probably discuss
the issue soon."


Blair was asked by David Cameron, the leader of the main
opposition Conservative Party, whether he would make sure that
the ban extended to the EU-African Union summit later this year.


Blair did not answer specifically but said it was vital for other
African countries, particularly Zimbabwe's neighbours, to
recognise that the situation there was a "disaster" for that
country and for Africa's reputation.


He said states like Ghana, whose president he met in London last
week, were showing the way ahead in terms of democracy and good
governance.


Cameron asked Blair whether he would be pushing South African
President Thabo Mbeki to do more to pressure Mugabe after US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice raised the issue with her
counterpart in Pretoria last week.


"We should do everything that we possibly can with the South
African government and others," Blair replied, but said
international pressure was likely to be more effective.


"The solution to Zimbabwe, ultimately, will not come simply
through the pressure applied by Britain," he told the lower House
of Commons.


"That pressure has got to be applied within Africa and particular
within the African Union.


"I can assure him (Cameron) that we will continue to do all we
can to make sure Africa realises this is the responsibility of
Africa as well as the Zimbabwe government."


Before Blair spoke, 10 members of the Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC), whose president Morgan Tsvangirai was beaten up by
police on March 11, were arrested after staging a sit-in at the
Zimbabwe embassy in central London.


The seven men and three women, who had wanted to hand in a
petition condemning the "continued brutality by the Mugabe
regime," were detained on suspicion of trespass of diplomatic
premises.


MDC-UK chairman Ephraim Tapa accused London's Metropolitan Police
of effectively protecting Mugabe by refusing to allow them to
hand in the petition and by arresting them.

