

A Paris court on Thursday hands down its verdict in the closely-
watched trial of a satirical French weekly sued by two Muslim
groups for publishing cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.


Two influential Muslim groups took the editor of Charlie Hebdo,
Philippe Val, to court for reprinting in February last year
cartoons that appeared in a Danish newspaper, sparking angry
protests by Muslims worldwide.


The plaintiffs -- the Paris Grand Mosque and the Union of Islamic
Organisations of France -- argue that the cartoons draw an
offensive link between Islam and terrorism and are demanding
30,000 euros (38,750 dollars) in damages.


A state prosecutor called for Val to be acquitted, at the end of
a two-day trial last month seen as an important test for freedom
of expression in France and which saw large crowds cram into the
Paris courtroom to hear the arguments put by both sides.


But Charlie Hebdo editor Val told AFP: "I want to be acquitted
without the slightest ambiguity. If there is any reservation
whatsoever, I will appeal."


Val is answering a complaint of "publicly offending a group of
persons on the basis of their religion", a charge that also
carries a maximum penalty of six months in prison and a fine of
up to 22,500 euros.


One of the cartoons reprinted from Denmark's Jyllands-Posten
showed Mohammed wearing a turban shaped as a bomb, and a second
showing the prophet standing on a cloud, turning away suicide
bombers from paradise with the caption "Stop, stop, we ran out of
virgins."


A separate drawing by French cartoonist Cabu showed Mohammed
sobbing, holding his head in his hands and saying: "It is hard to
be loved by fools."


Francis Szpiner, a lawyer for the Paris Mosque, said his client
was "calmly awaiting" the verdict.


"The trial was useful and educational, and the Paris Mosque was
right to act," he said. "Freedom of expression was never in
danger, secularism was never in danger," he insisted, saying the
trial had provided an opportunity for "a high- quality republican
debate".


Candidates in next month's French presidential election lined up
during the trial to defend their ideas about religion and freedom
of expression, while a group of 50 intellectuals including many
French Muslims published an open letter urging support for
Charlie Hebdo.


Right-wing election frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy, who is interior
minister and responsible for religious affairs, drew fire from
the French Muslim Council, to which the plaintiffs belong, after
he sent a message of support to Charlie Hebdo at the start of the
trial.


The editors of Jyllands-Posten were acquitted in October of any
wrongdoing in a separate case in a Danish court and very few
editors among the dozens of newspapers worldwide that re-printed
the cartoons have faced legal action.

