

An Indonesian court Wednesday jailed three Islamic militants for
up to 20 years over the beheading of three Christian schoolgirls
in a crime that drew international condemnation.


The court sentenced Hasanuddin, alias Slamet Raharjo, who came up
with the idea to decapitate the girls to mark a Muslim holiday,
to 20 years in prison.


"The accused was proven to plan and move other people to carry
out terror acts," the judge said.


A separate court sentenced two of 34-year-old Hasanuddin's
accomplices, Lilik Purnomo and Irwanto Irano, to 14 years in jail
for "evil plotting of, attempts of, or providing assistance to, a
crime of terrorism."


The teenage girls were walking home from school when they were
beheaded by machete in 2005 during a festival marking the end of
the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. A fourth girl survived and fled
with serious injuries.


The severed heads were dumped near a police post and a church
after the attack in Sulawesi island's religiously divided
district of Poso, where Muslims and Christians live in roughly
equal numbers and have clashed in the past.


The verdicts appeared reasonable but could lead to protests, said
Sidney Jones, the head of the International Crisis Group in
Indonesia.


"There will probably be some unhappy people in the Christian
community," she said.


Poso has seen sporadic unrest since violence between Muslims and
Christians claimed around 1,000 lives in 2000 and 2001. Tension
rose again in September after three Christians were executed for
inciting religious attacks.


Roy Rening, the lawyer who represented the executed Christians,
said the fact that three Muslims had escaped the death penalty
showed law enforcement in Indonesia was unjust.


"This clearly shows that our judicial system is in bad shape," he
said.


Rachland Nashidik, the executive director of rights group
Imparsial, was also perturbed by the difference.


Some might wonder if it was a case of "death for non-Muslims and
a lesser punishment for Muslims," he said.


Prosecutors had quoted Hasanuddin as saying the brutal crime
would avenge the many Muslims who had been "sadistically and
inhumanly slaughtered" by Christians.


He was accused of placing a message near two of the heads, which
read: "100 more heads are still being hunted down, blood for
blood, a life for a life, a head for a head."


The courts heard the men monitored the girls on several occasions
and that Hasanuddin gave Purnomo, 29, and Irano, 28, money to buy
six machetes and black plastic bags, which were used to wrap the
heads.


Purnomo acted as a lookout on a nearby hill, while Irano led the
attack on the girls, Alfita Moliwo, Teresia Morangki and Yani
Sambue. Irano left his fingerprints on the plastic bags.


Prosecutors had demanded 20-year jail terms for all the men, who
have still to decide if they will appeal. The trials were held in
the capital, Jakarta, rather than on Sulawesi for security
reasons.


Another militant, Basri, confessed to taking part in the killings
after he and two other men were arrested last month.


Basri said in a magazine interview that he helped to kill the
girls and took their heads to the militants' headquarters as a
"gift" to mark the end of Ramadan.


Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has condemned the
killings and Pope Benedict XVI has deplored what he described as
"barbaric murder."

