

Frenchman Brian Joubert landed a clean quadruple-triple toeloop
combination to take a commanding lead after the short programme
at the world figure skating championships here Wednesday.


Switzeland's Stephane Lambiel, fighting for a third straight
men's title, fell on an opening triple Axel and gave up his
attempt on a quadruple combination to trail in sixth spot, 10.20
points off Joubert.


Joubert, who has swept all before him this season to win the
Grand Prix final and lift his second European title, carded up
his personal best score of 83.64 points going into the final
event, the free skate, on Thursday.


He skated to the James Bond theme of Die Another Day, landing a
triple Axel but lightly touching the ice on a triple flip along
the way.


Olympic bronze medalist Jeffrey Buttle of Canada stood in second
spot with 79.90 points without a quad attempt, emphasising his
comeback after being sidelined with a back injury in the first
half of the season.


Hometown hero Daisuke Takahashi followed with 74.51.


Another favourite, Evan Lysacek of the United States, lost his
balance when he landed on a four-revolution toeloop and then
unde-rotated a triple in an opening combiation. He stood fifth
with 73.49.


"I am very happy about it," the 22-year-old Joubert said of his
breath-taking combination, the only quadruple completed in the
42-strong field. "It was a great combination. I hope to do it
again tomorrow."


Joubert, who could become the first singles world champion from
France since Alain Calmat in 1965, said he was "a little bit
disappointed" because Lysacek and fellow Frenchmen Yannick
Ponsero were the only others who had tried a quad.


"Anything could happen tomorrow," he added. "I've won all of my
competitions so far this year. Now I'm well on my way to win this
one."


Lambiel, the Olympic silver medalist who has skipped recent
events including the Europeans citing his lack of motivation,
regretted the fall in his new short programme to the soundtrack
music from Blood Diamond.


"I had a nice takeoff for my triple Axel," the 21-year-old said.
"In the air, I felt very good and I don't know what happened
because just when I landed I couldn't understand what position I
was in."


"I had five seconds to realise it was not done. So it was hard
after that to do the combination and maybe I hestated a little
bit too much," he said.


But Lambiel added: "I'm going to fight tomorrow as much as I can.
We'll see."


Buttle, who won the silver at the 2005 worlds, said, "I'm feeling
good and my back is not hurting at all."


"In any competition, I aim for the gold. But my main focus is
obviously with the skating. Sometimes you can get too much
carried away with the colour of the medal instead of the
performance."

