

Former US Vice President Al Gore, the politician turned
preeminent environmentalist, issued a dire warning to Congress
Wednesday about what he called a "planetary emergency" caused by
global warming.


Fresh from winning an Oscar for his blockbuster climate change
documentary "An Inconvenient Truth," Gore called for urgent
congressional action to pass legislation to help reverse the
ravages of global warming, which he said "threatens the survival
of our civilization and the habitability of the Earth."


And to underscore a growing consensus across America for his
views about endangered environment, Gore delivered to lawmakers
hundreds of thousands of emails from concerned Americans
supporting his call for action.


"There is a great deal of new momentum for action to solve the
climate crisis," he warned a joint hearing of three separate
House committees governing energy and environmental matters.


"Today I am here to deliver more than a half million messages to
Congress asking for real action on global warming," said the
former politician, who has reinvented himself from failed
presidential candidate into the country's leading environmental
gadfly.


"Global warming is real, and human activity is the main cause,"
Gore lectured lawmakers, many of whom until recently had publicly
taken the opposite view.


His visit to Capitol Hill was a homecoming for the former
lawmaker from Tennessee, who served in both the House and Senate
before being elected former president Bill Clinton's vice
president in 1992.


The first president George Bush, father of the incumbent, once
mocked Gore as "ozone man" for what he deemed far-out
environmental views.


But in recent years, Gore's stock has risen as global warming has
become a front-burner issue with growing numbers of Americans.


He noted in his testimony that America long has been out-of-step,
with the US government rejecting Kyoto Accords on global warming
accepted by much of the rest of the world, and US consumers
continuing squander energy, particularly by driving gas-guzzling
behemoths.


Reprising a prominent theme from his hit movie, Gore said it was
time the United States finally assume a leadership position on
climate change and set an example for developing countries --
notably China and India -- whose energy usage is poised to spike
dramatically in coming years.


"The best way -- and the only way -- to get China and India on
board is for the US to demonstrate real leadership," he said.


"As the world's largest economy and greatest superpower, we are
uniquely situated to tackle a problem of this magnitude," he
said.


Meanwhile, speculation continues to swirl about Gore's political
future -- specifically, whether he plans to run again for the
White House he narrowly lost in 2000 to current US President
George W. Bush.


Once derided as awkward and geeky, Gore, a newly-anointed
political star, drew standing room only crowds in Congress for
Monday's testimony, which was covered live by cable news
channels. He was due to repeat his performance at a Senate
committee hearing later Wednesday.


Gore professes himself to be satisfied with his calling as
environmental conscience, and although supporters have launched
websites like "draftgore2008.org" and "algore.org" to goad him
into tossing his hat into the ring, so far he has resisted calls
to join the presidential fray.


Still, the lifelong Democrat has not ruled out taking another
crack at running for the White House, and has a series of high
profile events and honors, including his Oscar victory and a
Nobel Peace Prize nomination which make an ideal launching pad
for a presidential campaign.


Gore also is organizing a seven-continent musical series intended
to be a fundraiser for environmental causes and is planning a
blowout concert on the steps of the US Capitol in July.

