

French President Jacques Chirac gave his official backing on
Wednesday to the right-wing presidential candidate Nicolas
Sarkozy, frontrunner to succeed him in the April-May vote.


Chirac also announced in a televised statement that Sarkozy, the
52-year-old interior minister and candidate for the ruling Union
for a Popular Movement (UMP), will leave the government on Monday
to focus full-time on the race.


"Five years ago, I called for the creation of the UMP to allow
France to pursue a rigorous policy of modernisation. In all its
diversity, this political movement chose to support the candidacy
of Nicolas Sarkozy in the presidential election, because of his
qualities," Chirac said.


"Naturally, I will therefore bring him my vote and my support,"
he said.


Polls show Sarkozy currently leading the race for the April-May
election, ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal, 53, and the
centrist Francois Bayrou, 55. Far- right leader Jean-Marie Le
Pen, 78, comes fourth, well ahead of the eight remaining
candidates.


Sarkozy immediately issued a statement welcoming Chirac's
backing. "I am very touched by this decision. It is important to
me on a political level, but also on a personal level," he said.


Chirac, who ruled out seeking a third term only 10 days ago, left
it to the last possible moment to give his backing to Sarkozy, a
one-time protege who now advocates a "clean break" with the
policies of his government.


Sarkozy said earlier this month that he did not consider himself
Chirac's natural "heir" but acknowledged that his endorsement
would be welcome.


Chirac said he met with Sarkozy ahead of Wednesday's cabinet
meeting, and had taken "the opportunity to salute his work, his
commitment, his results at the interior ministry".


Sarkozy's five years at interior, from 2002 to 2004 and again
from 2005 to 2007, did more than anything in his 30-year career
to shape his candidate's image as a tough-talking man of action.


But his record as interior minister -- the number two position in
the French government -- is hotly disputed.


He claims major successes in driving down overall crime, which
has dropped 9.4 percent since 2002, by setting new targets for
police, and bringing in stiffer sentences for repeat young
offenders and measures such as electronic tagging.


But his critics accuse him of undermining community policing and
fanning tensions in France's tense suburbs by referring to young
troublemakers as "rabble" that should be "hosed down". They point
at conflicting figures suggesting that violent crime is actually
on the rise.


It was under Sarkozy's watch that riots broke out in late 2005 in
hundreds of mainly-immigrant suburbs, where his tough line on law
and order has made him deeply unpopular -- even though his
supporters credit him with ensuring not a single rioter was
injured in clashes with police.


The centrist Bayrou, who received a triumphant welcome during a
recent visit to a rough Paris suburb, rounded on Sarkozy's record
this week, echoing claims that the minister has become a persona
non grata in the suburbs.


"Five years as interior minister, and he cannot even set foot in
France's suburbs. He pledged there would be no more lawless
neighbourhoods. Today there are entire districts where the police
are on orders not to enter," he said.


Royal's Socialist Party (PS) repeatedly accused Sarkozy of using
his powers as interior minister to advance his campaign.


Sarkozy had dismissed the criticism, saying only that he would
step down before the start of the official campaign on April 9.
He is due to be succeeded by Overseas Minister Francois Baroin, a
protege of Chirac.

