

Australian players are chomping at the bit ahead of their final
key Group A match against bitter rivals South Africa, the world
number one ranked side in one-day cricket.


"The boys are really training well and they are so pumped up for
this game, they can't wait," Mike Hussey said of Saturday's
showdown which will decide who tops the group and carry two
points into the Super Eights.


The 31-year-old left-handed batsman, dubbed "Mr Cricket" by his
team-mates for his commitment and professionalism, said Australia
had not been tested in their first two matches against Scotland
and the Netherlands, won by 203 and 229 runs respectively.


"The first two games have been good and we have just been getting
used to the conditions. We have played well but we haven't been
tested a hell of a lot by the opposition," said Hussey.


Hussey, under whom Australia lost the Chappell-Hadlee trophy 3-0
to New Zealand last month, said plans will have to be executed
well against South Africa.


"We have to prepare well and play very well on the day. It is
nice to play at this ground and we understand the conditions now,
understand the short boundaries, and hope we execute our plans
better than we did in the summer."


Hussey said both teams have respect for each other and it would
be a hard-fought match.


"The teams have a healthy respect for each other, and I think
they've realized that any sort of banter doesn't really work. You
can have all the mindgames you want and the slanging matches
going back and forth.


"But at the end of the day I don't think it really works at all.
What matters is out on the field. How well you play the game.


"Two proud countries, two pretty proud histories. Just such an
important game. It is a huge game and very, very important in the
whole scheme of things, and we want to be tested, we want a real
serious contest."


Hussey hoped Australia can expose South Africa's weaknesses at
Warner Park.


"On these grounds you can go the journey a bit in those last few
overs. I wouldn't say South Africa have got a problem, we're
going to be targeting a lot of areas, not just one or two," said
Hussey.


"We need a complete game of cricket, because if we don't come off
in just one area, we'll come up short. We'll be focusing on a
full 100 overs, rather than just their death bowling time in the
middle."


Hussey, who managed just 12 and two in the first two matches, was
not concerned over his form.


"I try not to look at results too much because I come in in so
many different situations. It'd be nice to come in and have a
bat, but it's a long tournament and there are going to be
important times when I have to come in and play my job.


"As a batsman you always look at a ground and target certain
areas. At Auckland for instance, it's slightly off-centre for the
left-hander so you need adjustment," said Hussey, regarded as the
best finisher in the game.

