

Owen Hargreaves is confident he can pick up where he left off at
the World Cup as he prepares for his return to England duty in
Saturday's crucial Euro 2008 qualifier in Israel.


The Bayern Munich midfielder, who rivalled Joe Cole as England's
most effective player in Germany, has not played for his country
since breaking a leg in a Bundesliga match in September.


Without him England were held to a goalless draw at home by
Macedonia and were beaten 2-0 in Croatia, leaving them third in
Group E and in danger of failing to qualify for the finals in
Austria and Switzerland.


That outcome will become much more likely if England go down to
defeat on Saturday, but Hargreaves insists he has no qualms about
making his international return in such a high-pressure
environment.


"I've been out for longer than I originally expected but I've had
some games under my belt now and it's great obviously to be back
playing," he said.


"This is the next step, to be back with England, and we've got
two important games and I'm looking forward to it."


Hargreaves has hooked up with his England team-mates with his
confidence bolstered by the role he played in Bayern's
elimination of Real Madrid from the Champions League earlier this
month.


"I feel I am ready," the midfielder said. "I played against Real
Madrid after playing only one game in the league against
Nuremberg - and I've played 90 minutes against Real Madrid twice.
This is just the next step really."


Hargreaves is expected to play a holding role in midfield for
England, just as he did in the summer to considerable acclaim,
and he is not lacking in confidence.


"I think I've shown what I can bring to a team," he said.
"Hopefully I can bring some energy into the midfield if I get the
opportunity to play and give the back four some support to help
them keep a clean sheet. Obviously with the players we have going
forward I want to get them the ball in positions where they can
create chances and hopefully score some goals."


For a player who was booed by his own fans ahead of the World Cup
and who was regarded by supporters in England as only a minor
member of the squad until recently, it is remarkable that
Hargreaves is now being hailed as returning hero.


Whereas a year ago he was virtually ignored by pundits predicting
their first- choice England team he is now often described as the
reason why England have performed so abysmally in his absence.


And he has certainly won over the hyper-critical fans who made
his life so difficult in the past.


"That's not something I focused on to achieve," he insists. "The
most important thing is that the manager picks me and that he
thinks I can do a job to help the team win."


The next task for Hargreaves is to ensure he makes a major impact
in Tel Aviv, especially after McClaren's side were lambasted for
a lacklustre performance in a recent 1-0 friendly defeat against
Spain.


Memories of that result, and of the more serious reverse in
Croatia, makes this a hugely important game not only for the
English team but also for their coach.


"They are all big games," Hargreaves said. "If you're playing for
Bayern Munich, Manchester United or Liverpool every game is a
must-win.


"That's the way it's been ever since I came through, especially
the England games. Definitely, with the position we're in, we
need the three points."


England will be close to full strength for the Tel Aviv encounter
with right- back Gary Neville the only significant call-off among
McClaren's first-choice players.


Liverpool's Jamie Carragher is expected to fill the gap left by
the Manchester United captain, although Charlton defender Luke
Young was called into the squad on Wednesday as additional cover
for that berth.


After playing Israel on Saturday, England will travel to
Barcelona for a clash with group minnows Andorra the following
Wednesday.

