

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice defended on Wednesday a
plan to provide millions of dollars in aid to security forces
loyal to Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas despite his
controversial power-sharing deal with radical Islamists.


President George W. Bush asked Congress in January to approve 86
million dollars in aid for the Abbas forces, which were then
locked in a power struggle with the Islamic movement Hamas, which
Washington considers a terrorist group.


But the request was blocked by lawmakers concerned the money
could end up funding Hamas-controlled elements of a new
Palestinian unity government.


Rice, who leaves Friday for the Middle East, acknowledged in
testimony to Congress that the formation over the weekend of the
unity government grouping Hamas and Abbas' moderate Fatah party
"has provided something of a challenge" for US policy towards the
Palestinians.


She said Hamas, which the US and Israel consider a terrorist
group, has refused to meet conditions of the so-called Quartet of
big power mediators for recognition of the new Palestinian
government, including renouncing violence and recognizing
Israel's right to exist.


"Our position towards the Palestinian unity government is that it
must move to accept these foundational principles for peace," she
said.


Rice said an international aid boycott imposed on the Palestinian
government when Hamas won sole control of the authority a year
ago would remain in place against the unity government as long as
it rejects the principles.


But she said Washington would maintain contacts with non-Hamas
members of the government and wanted to revive the security aid
package for Abbas.


"We will not suspend our contacts with those in the Palestinian
government who have a record of fighting for peace," she said.


"I think that keeps a way to continue to influence the
development of this Palestinian government," she said.


Rice said she would soon submit a revised proposal for the aid to
Abbas loyalist forces which would involve less than the initial
86 million dollars and include a clear "firewall" to ensure the
assistance does not end up in the hands of Hamas.


"I believe very strongly that we do need to support forces that
are loyal to those who accept the Quartet principles, because I'm
quite certain that those who do not accept them will continue to
build their security forces," she said.


The aid proposal concerns "non-lethal assistance" such as
training, vehicles and uniforms for forces loyal to Abbas and
Fatah and who are called upon to counter attacks on Israel by
militants from Hamas and other groups.


The Fatah security forces were weakened by in-fighting and years
of Israeli and international isolation under the late Palestinian
leader Yasser Arafat.


During a flare-up in factional violence between Fatah and Hamas
supporters in the Gaza Strip, the Islamists confirmed their
superiority


Rice is scheduled to meet separately during her upcoming trip
with Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who has ruled
out any contact with the new Palestinian government.


She will also meet with Egyptian and other Arab leaders in Egypt
and meet with Jordan's King Abdullah II during the five-day trip.

