

World oil prices gained ground on Wednesday before a crucial US
energy report that was forecast to show that US gasoline reserves
fell last week, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
gained 35 cents to 60.55 dollars per barrel during electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, added 35 cents to 59.60 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


The US Department of Energy publishes its closely watched energy
report later Wednesday. The weekly snapshot is expected to show a
fall in US gasoline inventories due to strong demand in the run-
up to the summer driving season.


"Crude futures were a little higher (on Wednesday) ahead of the
US crude inventories report, with analysts expecting a decline in
US gasoline supplies during last week," said Sucden analyst
Michael Davies.


Gasoline (petrol) is in focus ahead of the peak-demand season,
beginning May 31, when US drivers throng roads during their
summer vacations.


London analysts predict that US gasoline stocks fell by 2.0
million barrels during the week ending March 16. That would mark
the sixth consecutive weekly drop.


Market expectations are that US stockpiles of distillates, which
include diesel and heating fuel, will retreat by 1.5 million
barrels.


Crude oil reserves are forecast to fall by 1.0 million barrels.


Oil prices have steadied this week after heavy falls the previous
week that came amid fresh stock market turmoil sparked by fears
of a potential US economic slowdown.


Dealers said recovering world stock markets have supported
investor sentiment in the crude oil market.


Barclays Capital analyst Kevin Norrish said fast-falling US
gasoline inventories, lower import availability and very strong
US demand levels were all lending support to prices.


Meanwhile, concerns over key producer Iran were also resurfacing.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was expected to plead
Tehran's case this week before the UN Security Council, which is
considering tightening sanctions on the Islamic republic over
fears that it seeks nuclear weapons.


"There was more news on the ongoing Iran nuclear saga, with
Russia stating that it will not support excessive sanctions
against the country in the United Nations Security Council,"
Davies added.


Should the international community respond by punishing Iran with
economic sanctions, Iran might decide to disrupt its crucial oil
exports, according to some experts.

