

The Italian defence ministry fears that a "dangerous precedent"
was set when journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed in
exchange for five Taliban fighters, press reports said on
Wednesday.


While Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi warmly thanked the
humanitarian agency Emergency for its efforts in obtaining
Mastrogiacomo's release, Defence Minister Arturo Parisi was less
sanguine, according to the daily Corriere della Sera.


Parisi said that "entrusting the negotiations to (Emergency
founder) Gino Strada was a serious mistake," Corriere reported
citing an unnamed source close to the minister.


A defence ministry communique on the episode, issued 24 hours
after Mastrogiacomo's release on Monday, did not even refer to
Emergency.


Corriere said Parisi felt "the political price that we have
already paid could be much higher in the future" in Afghanistan,
where Italy has some 2,000 troops deployed in NATO's
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


The economic daily Il Sole-24 Ore said the defence minister
feared the prisoner exchange may have set "a dangerous
precedent."


Strada's request that Italian secret service operatives stay away
from the negotiations "damaged the state's image and sent a
dangerous message to the terrorists: 'Let's kidnap an Italian and
our demands will be met,'" Corriere said of Parisi's concern.


"After what happened, I wonder what spirit we will be able to
operate in," Parisi said, according to Corriere.


For his part Italian Infrastructure Minister Antonio di Pietro
lamented "the humiliation that we had to endure," calling for
"precise rules, to avoid submitting to unacceptable blackmail
that threatens to compromise international credibility."


People should be aware "that when you go to places where the risk
is high, you endanger not only your own life but that of those
who later have to intervene," Di Pietro said, according to the
ANSA news agency.


The daily La Stampa said Parisi felt that accepting the Taliban's
conditions "made all Italians a priority target for the warlords
of Kabul."


Mastrogiacomo told a news conference on Wednesday: "What was done
did not violate the independence or sovereignty" of Afghanistan.


The Afghan president's office admitted that it released some
Taliban prisoners, without stating how many.


Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah told an Afghan news agency on
Monday that he freed the Italian after receiving five Taliban
prisoners, including a "culture officer," a former spokesman and
two commanders.


Meanwhile, Mastrogiacomo detailed his two-week ordeal in a
lengthy article in La Repubblica on Wednesday, calling his
Taliban captors "without culture or human experience."


"The Taliban are warriors first, people used to handling weapons,
using them, cleaning them, revering them," he said in a lengthy
account in his newspaper La Repubblica.


Weapons "were almost always their only friends," said the 52
-year-old veteran war correspondent.


"Cleaning their sole friend in life and battle was a ritual that
could take at least two hours a day," he wrote.


Mastrogiacomo described his captors, most between 20 and 25 years
old, "as poor young boys, without culture or human, sexual,
emotional or romantic experience."


They tried several times "sincerely" to convince him to convert
to Islam, he wrote.


The Taliban are hard to beat, Mastrogiacomo said. "They live on
the move all the time. ... They have no salary and do everything
for free. They just like and enjoy fighting for their cause."


The reporter, who was kidnapped March 4 with his Afghan driver
and interpreter, said on Monday that he had witnessed the
beheading of the driver.


Mastrogiacomo told the news conference: "I'm not a star. I'll
continue to do what I've always done, that is journalism, but
I'll never go back to Afghanistan."

