

Malaysia's central bank on Wednesday announced a slew of new
measures to liberalise its foreign exchange rules to attract
overseas investors and facilitate trading in the ringgit.


The measures, to take effect on April 1, follow on from a drive
since 2003 to liberalise foreign exchange rules.


"We started this liberalisation as we felt that it will
strengthen the domestic financial system," said central Bank
Negara governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz at the release of the bank's
annual report.


"So far we have seen the benefits of our previous liberalisation
and we've seen also the very orderly implementation," she said.


Under the changes, investment banks in Malaysia will be allowed
to undertake foreign currency business. Limits imposed on foreign
currency accounts maintained by residents in licensed onshore
banks will also be abolished.


The banks will be allowed to appoint overseas branches to
facilitate the settlement of any ringgit assets of their non-
resident clients.


Residents will also be allowed to open and maintain joint foreign
currency accounts for any purpose. Previously, they were only
allowed to do so for education and overseas employment reasons.


Zeti also said the central bank would consider allowing the
ringgit to trade offshore if the move was seen as beneficial to
the country.


"In terms of internationalisation of our currency, at the
appropriate time, we will also make the assessment whether we
have the preconditions in place to benefit from that
liberalisation," she said.


Malaysia imposed capital controls in 1998 at the height of the
Asian financial crisis, only removing its peg of 3.80 to the
dollar in July 2005 in favour of a managed float.


However, it has yet to lift the ban on trading the ringgit
offshore.


"We will measure carefully, at each point in time, these
liberalisations that we undertake, to look at both the benefit to
the country, as well as the risk it brings," Zeti said.


The ringgit has been trading at nine-year highs against the
dollar and has risen by about 9.0 percent since the removal of
the peg.


"So long as the strength of the ringgit reflects the underlying
economy, that is a positive development," Zeti said.


At the close of trade on Wednesday the ringgit was at 3.4740 to
the dollar.

