

French President Jacques Chirac led a national tribute on
Wednesday to the wartime Resistance heroine Lucie Aubrac, who
famously rescued her husband in a daring attack on a German
convoy.


Aubrac, who died last week at the age of 94, was awarded full
military honours in a ceremony at the historic Invalides military
hospice in Paris, where her coffin was draped in the colours of
the French flag.


Chirac paid tribute to Aubrac as a "shining light of the
Resistance" and a symbol of women's commitment to the struggle
against Nazi rule.


"Lucie Aubrac, we will not forget your message. National cohesion
is a battle to be fought every day. We must keep the flame of the
Republic's struggles for freedom alive in our hearts," he said.


Aubrac's husband Raymond, 92, their three children and 10
grandchildren were present for the ceremony, along with several
former Resistance fighters and a dozen members of the government.


She was to be cremated in a private family ceremony, at her own
request.


Born Lucie Bertrand on June 29, 1912 to a Burgundy winemaking
family, Aubrac became a history and geography teacher. Married in
1939, she and her husband helped set up one of the first
underground groups in German-occupied France.


In June 1943 Raymond Aubrac was captured alongside Charles de
Gaulle's Resistance chief Jean Moulin in a Gestapo raid near
Lyon. Moulin was transported to Paris and later died from
torture.


In October 1943, Aubrac was among a group of fighters who
ambushed a truck bearing her husband and 13 other resistance
members from Gestapo headquarters in the southeastern city of
Lyon in October 1943.


The ambush became one of the most celebrated Resistance exploits
of World War II, and the theme of two films "Lucie Aubrac" and
"Boulevard des Hirondelles.


After the Lyon attack she travelled secretly to London with her
husband and young child to join de Gaulle's administration in
exile.


After the war Aubrac was a jury member in the court which tried
the Vichy leader Philippe Petain. She returned to teaching, and
for the rest of her life gave talks in schools about her wartime
experience.

