

Tens of thousands of Kurds marked their biggest festival, Newroz,
on Wednesday with celebrations marred by sporadic clashes between
police and militants.


The authorities beefed up security for the flashpoint event,
which has been mired in bloodshed in the past. Several dozen
people were detained for displaying support for Kurdish
separatists fighting the government.


In the Mediterranean port of Mersin, home to a particularly
militant community of migrant Kurds, police used water cannons
and tear gas to disperse some 1,000 youths demonstrating in
support of jailed Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan.


"Without Ocalan we will bring the world down on your head," they
chanted, in a reference to allegations that the leader of the
Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is being poisoned in prison.


At least 20 protestors were detained and several people injured,
an AFP photographer said.


Newroz Day, which marks the arrival of spring and the Kurdish New
Year, has become a platform for Turkey's Kurdish minority to
demand greater freedoms or voice support for the PKK.


The group which has waged a bloody separatist campaign in the
mainly Kurdish southeast since 1984 is listed as a terrorist
group by Ankara and much of the international community.


The largest crowd -- about 100,000 people -- gathered in
Diyarbakir, the main city of the southeast, where militant
revellers chanted pro-PKK slogans. Police detained eight people.


Three women were slightly injured when demonstrators hurled
stones at the police and the security forces fired warning shots
in the air, the Anatolia news agency reported.


About 30 people were detained in other cities, it said.


In Istanbul, Turkey's biggest city, 50,000 people attended the
festivities lighting traditional bonfires and dancing to Kurdish
folk music.


"Real democracy or nothing," they shouted, while a group of
youths unfurled a giant portrait of Ocalan before police
intervened to take it down.


The festivities were organised by Turkey's main Kurdish political
movement, the Democratic Society Party, whose members have in
recent weeks become increasingly targeted by judicial action over
charges of backing the PKK.


In Ankara, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan appealed for peace
and unity at official Newroz ceremonies, held in a bid to prevent
the day from being monopolised by Kurdish militants.


"Let the seeds of hatred and hostility burn in the bonfires,"
Erdogan said. "As long as we do not hurt each other's feelings,
no one can damage our unity."


He then lit a bonfire and several ministers jumped over it.


Newroz is also celebrated in Iran and other Muslim communities in
the Caucasus and Central Asia.


Celebrations in Turkey have been relatively calm in recent years,
but police in Istanbul and nearby Kocaeli last week detained 12
suspected Kurdish rebels in possession of 11.7 kilograms (25.7
pounds) of plastic explosives, reportedly intended for bomb
attacks at Newroz.


The run-up to the festival was also marred by accusations by
Ocalan's lawyers that the PKK leader, whom many Kurds see as a
freedom fighter, is being gradually poisoned with toxic
substances in the prison island of Imrali, where he is the sole
inmate. Ankara has denied the claims.


In 1992, in the bloodiest Newroz so far, about 50 people were
killed by the security forces during clashes across the
southeast.


More recently, in 2002, two men were crushed to death during a
police crackdown on violent Newroz demonstrations in Mersin.


Under pressure from the European Union, which it is seeking to
join, Ankara has in recent years broadened Kurdish cultural
freedoms.


But Kurdish activists say the reforms are inadequate and have
called on the government for a general amnesty for PKK militants
to encourage them to end their armed campaign, which has resulted
in more than 37,000 deaths.

