

Fluid shapes in metallic tones and fruity colours dominated the
first day of India Fashion Week Wednesday as some 87 designers
unveiled new trends for domestic and foreign buyers.


Around 180 buyers, including from US chain Bloomingdale's and
exclusive Parisian boutique stores Le Bon Marche and Maria Luisa
are scheduled to attend some 40 shows for autumn-winter 2007
fashion.


Designer Malini Ramani set the tone for the six-day extravaganza
by sending her models in pleated skirts teamed with cropped
jackets studded with stones and beads and tiny fur shrugs in
mainly black and gold.


"I design for myself. If people want to buy them, they can,"
Ramani said after the show, which won praise from fashionistas
for its appliques and intricate surface detailing.


"My clothes are sexy, but they also have an element of India,"
the designer said.


"The collection had some interesting surface ornamentation," said
Vandana Bhandari, professor at the premier National Institute of
Fashion Technology.


In contrast, designer Aparna Chandra paraded models in subtle,
feminine silhouettes, styled after international trends: tiny
loose frocks with balloon hems and pleated sleeves worn with
black tights and often cinched under the bust.


Chandra sent her models alternately in delicate rose and blue
hues with bursts of fruity tangerines and limes in a line that
raised eyebrows among many fashion watchers.


"The finish was really lacking as she's used fabrics such as
satin which are difficult to work with. Very few people get the
finish right," said top fashion consultant Harmeet Bajaj.


Many buyers said they were looking forward to shows by bigger
names such as Rajesh Pratap Singh, known for impeccable tailoring
and construction, and current Indian favourite Manish Arora.


Their shows are slated for later in the week.


"There is a lot of interesting stuff going on here. The colours,
the vibrancy -- it's a passion for India that brings me here,"
said Chantal Rousseau of Bloomingdale's Europe division.


Arora, who won rave reviews at last month's London Fashion Week,
said he would show the same collection on Saturday.


"It's very futuristic, with androids and all," Arora said.


Various estimates of India's young fashion business put its size
between 50 and 250 million dollars -- a small fraction of the
country's 12-billion-dollar domestic textile industry.


A study released last month by industry body ASSOCHAM estimated
that the fashion sector could grow tenfold in the next five
years.

