

Taiwan police on Wednesday said they had smashed two human
smuggling rings that used false marriages to lure Indonesian and
Vietnamese women who were forced to work as slave labour or
prostitutes.


In the northern city of Keelung, police arrested more than 20
members of a criminal gang and rescued 35 Indonesian women who
had been sold to employers after being lured into false marriages
they thought would secure them permission to work in Taiwan.


"They were sold by the ring at a price of up to 250,000 Taiwan
dollars (7,575 US) per head," Lai Ching-tsung, a police officer
involved in the mission, told AFP.


Police found the women had been forced to work, some in factories
and others as maids, to pay the costs of their illegal
immigration but much of the money they earned had gone into the
gang's pockets.


The ring leader, identified as Huang Chen-hui, was still at
large, Lai said.


Separately, Taipei police arrested 10 people in a crack down on
another human smuggling ring.


They rescued two Vietnamese women forced into the sex trade but
said they suspected at least 30 other Vietnamese women remained
under the group's control.


Police are investigating if any match-making agencies were
involved in the human trafficking, which is punishable by a
minimum five-year prison sentence and a fine of up to 500,000
Taiwanese dollars.


Authorities have clamped down on illegal immigration in the face
of a growing number of fake international marriages, largely for
purposes of prostitution.


Taiwan has received more than 380,000 foreign spouses over the
past 20 years, more than 65 percent of them from Hong Kong, Macau
and China, according to interior ministry figures.


According to official figures, 19.8 percent of foreign spouses
are from Vietnam, 6.8 percent come from Indonesia, 2.46 percent
from Thailand, 1.59 percent from the Philippines and 1.18 percent
from Cambodia.


A number of Taiwanese husbands of foreign brides are low-income
workers, the less-educated or older veterans who had a hard time
finding wives on the island, said Hsia Hsiao-chuan, associate
professor at Taiwan's Shih Hsin University.

