

A German court on Wednesday upheld a complaint against a judge
who refused a Moroccan-born German woman to file for divorce on
the grounds that the Koran permits husbands to beat their wives.


A spokesman for the regional court in the western city of
Frankfurt said it had backed a complaint of bias against the
judge by lawyer Barbara Becker-Rojczyk on behalf of her 26-year-
old client, a mother of two.


Another judge will now hear her case.


According to a police report filed in May, the husband, also of
Moroccan origin, regularly brutalised his wife and threatened to
kill her.


She filed for an immediate divorce in October on the grounds that
although they were separated, he still posed a threat to her.


But a female judge at the Frankfurt regional court made clear in
a letter that the wife's bid had little chance of approval
because, according to her, Islamic law allowed a man to strike
his wife.


"It is not unusual that a man exercises his right to punish his
wife" among Arab married couples, the judge wrote in a letter to
the plaintiff's lawyer, adding that the couple had married in
2001 "according to the laws of the Koran."


The judge cited Koran verses which she said gave a man the right
to claim his honour has been compromised if his wife is unchaste.


She suggested the plaintiff wait until she had been separated
from her husband for a year -- in May -- and then apply for a
divorce, as is normally required under German law.


"Apparently the judge considers my client to be unchaste for
adopting a Western lifestyle," Becker-Rojczyk told the online
edition of news weekly Der Spiegel.


The managing director of German women's rights organisation Terre
des Femmes, Christa Stolle, said she was shocked by the judge's
stance.


"It is unbelievable that a judge in Germany is basing her
decisions on the Koran," she told Spiegel Online. "It is beyond
the pale."


Stolle said German judges were occasionally known to take a
softer stance on crimes within a marriage, particularly if the
couple came from a more "traditional" culture.


She noted that so-called "honour killings" were at times treated
with more discretion than other murders.


But she said the German justice system largely rejected the use
of cultural traditions as an excuse to break the law.


"I hope the case in Frankfurt is an exception," she said.

