

Israel's powerful labour union on Wednesday staged an eight-hour
strike that paralysed much of the country's essential services
until a deal was hammered out to end a wages crisis.


"The strike is over and all the workers can return to work
normally," Histadrut labour federation chairman Ofer Eini said
after signing an agreement with the government.


Around 400,000 public workers went on strike at 9 am (0700 GMT)
after all-night reconciliation efforts between the government and
Histadrut failed to resolve the row.


"We decided that the non-payment of wages to public servants must
cease once and for all," Eini told public radio.


After day-long talks a deal was struck under which the government
will transfer salaries by Thursday morning to most of the 3,700
employees in more than 50 local and religious councils who have
gone without pay for months.


"All the salaries will be paid by today or tomorrow. We will also
sanction mayors" who fail to pay the wages, Eini told reporters.


"I am sorry we had to use the weapon of a strike, but I am glad
to announce to the local council workers that their salaries will
be paid," he told army radio.


All government ministries except for defence shut their doors and
stopped answering telephones.


The country's border crossings also closed as trains, planes and
ports ceased operating. Rubbish removal stopped and school buses
ground to a halt.


Some also feared the strike would disrupt the nation's water
supply as the water authority scaled back operations to a
minimum, the Yediot Aharanot newspaper reported.


Hospitals, security services and public radio and television
worked as usual, however, along with banks and the stock
exchange.


Around 50,000 travellers were herded through Israel's Ben Gurion
international airport near Tel Aviv on Tuesday night as airlines
tried to get them in and out of the country before the strike was
due to start.


Despite the union action, the plane carrying the England football
team heading for Israel for a crucial Euro 2008 qualifier was
allowed to land at Ben Gurion on Wednesday, an airport authority
spokesman told AFP.


Eini said he didn't want to spoil the fun or Israel's chances of
advancing by forcing Saturday's match to be cancelled.


Aircraft flying 5,000 English football fans to Israel to cheer on
their team during the crucial fixture were also allowed to land.


Tel Aviv bar owners eagerly awaiting a boost in sales to hard-
drinking English football fans breathed a collective sigh of
relief, Israeli television reported.


It had been feared the airport shutdown would hurt Israeli
tourism ahead of the Passover holiday starting on April 2, when
tens of thousands of Jews travel to Israel from around the world
to commemorate the biblical exodus from Egypt.


Last month, Prime Minister Ehud Olmert averted another threatened
strike by the Histradut union after he pledged to resolve the
unpaid wages crisis, but it remained unresolved until Wednesday's
deal.

