

The Federal Reserve was set to keep interest rates steady
Wednesday while poring over the outlook for a US economy that is
hurting from inflation and slow growth, analysts said.


The Federal Open Market Committee, headed by Ben Bernanke, was
set to make its announcement at 1815 GMT at the end of a two-day
meeting.


Most economists expect the FOMC to leave the federal funds rate
at 5.25 percent. More important for financial markets is the
Fed's accompanying policy statement.


The rate has been unchanged since the FOMC halted a string of
increases last August. But the panel has warned after each
meeting that it could resume rate hikes if inflation kicks up.


However, the Fed panel is compelled to redraft its policy
statement to reflect the latest economic developments, including
a crisis in the mortgage market focussed on some "subprime"
lenders, say analysts.


"The Fed can't say there is evidence of inflation having improved
in recent months," said Robert Brusca at FAO Economics, citing
hotter-than-expected reports on consumer and wholesale inflation.


Brusca said the central bank also has to drop other references
from its January policy statement: "The Fed cannot say that data
suggest firmer growth at this time and keep a straight face."


Analysts say the Fed is obliged to warn about inflation risks to
keep price expectations from getting out of hand. But it also
must signal a readiness to ease interest rates if the economy
sputters further.


The latest economic data "limits the Fed's room to maneuver and
makes their life more complicated," said Nariman Behravesh, chief
economist at the research firm Global Insight.


"I think this will be reflected in the statement with a more
balanced outlook for the risks on inflation and growth,"
Behravesh added, saying he expected "a little more emphasis on
the weakness in housing."


"The year will begin with weak growth and high inflation," he
said. This likely means the Fed "will be on hold for most of this
year."


Wells Fargo senior economist Scott Anderson said the outlook
remains highly uncertain.


"We do not yet have enough information to confidently extrapolate
beyond this quarter the trajectory of economic growth," he said.


"This is what is driving the daily up and down volatility in the
US and global stock markets."


Jay Bryson at Wachovia Securities said there was very little
chance of a rate cut.


"However, investors are keenly interested in the statement that
the FOMC will issue at the conclusion of the meeting.


"Will the FOMC acknowledge that the problems in the mortgage
market are affecting the growth outlook? Will it say that
inflation is no longer the major risk to the economy?"


Bryson said a "dovish" statement that focuses on weakness would
raise hopes that the Fed will eventually cut rates while a
"hawkish" statement could lead to appreciation of the dollar.


Some analysts say it might be dangerous for the Fed to do nothing
if the economy is floundering, given the months-long time lag
before monetary policy changes take effect.


"We are projecting the economy to grow just 1.8 percent this
quarter, thereby marking the fourth consecutive quarter in which
growth has been below trend," said economist Joseph LaVorgna at
Deutsche Bank.


"We are increasingly worried that the Fed is going to stay on
extended hold, even in the face of weakening economic activity.


"For now, we are holding to our view that there is sufficient
weakness in the pipeline for the labor market to deteriorate in
the months ahead -- enough to push the Fed to ease rates by the
end of the third quarter."

