

US shares were mixed Wednesday as investors awaited an interest
rate announcement from the Federal Reserve with most analysts
expecting the central bank to keep rates steady.


The market is betting that the Fed will keep its key short term
interest rate anchored at 5.25 percent, but is waiting to see
what the Fed says about US economic conditions.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down a slight 16.18 points
(0.13 percent) at 12,271.92 at 1606 GMT.


The Nasdaq composite had gained 0.81 points (0.03 percent) to
2,409.02 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index
increased 0.58 points (0.04 percent) to 1,411.52.


All the indexes were displaying scant movement ahead of the rate
announcement.


Although the Fed's decision is largely viewed as a foregone
conclusion, analysts cautioned that there could be frenzied
trading in the wake of the 1815 GMT announcement.


"The market has a tendency to be volatile after the Fed release,"
said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"The Fed hasn't changed rates for nine months now, yet every
policy statement is overanalyzed as if there is some secret
message that a rate cut is coming next meeting," Green said.


Market participants said the Fed's comments on the economy will
face closer scrutiny because US economic growth has moderated,
and fears are growing about the housing market and liquidity
problems afflicting some mortgage lenders.


The Fed has said that it sees inflation as a major concern, but
inflation has yet to ease as much as desired, so analysts said
they will also be waiting to see if the central bank makes any
remarks about the inflation outlook.


Some economists believe the Fed will likely trim rates later in
the year in a bid to rev up economic growth.


On the stock front, Morgan Stanley's shares had surged 3.20
dollars, or just over four percent, to 79.31 dollars after the
investment bank reported a better- than-expected set of quarterly
earnings.


Morgan Stanley announced net profits totalling 2.67 billion
dollars for the first quarter, including a handy 109 million
dollar gain from the divestment of a British brokerage business
called Quilter.


Excluding such gains, earnings came in at 2.40 dollars per share,
higher than the 1.88 dollars expected by most analysts.


Investment banking, but also debt and share trading helped swell
Morgan Stanley's coffers.


The mortgage sector also remained in focus a day before Congress
holds a hearing on the industry amid growing concerns about home
foreclosures and how lenders doled out mortgages to people with
poor credit histories.


A senior executive from global banking giant HSBC and officials
from Countrywide Financial and WMC Mortgage are expected to offer
to testimony to lawmakers.


HSBC said last month that it was facing liabilities of over 10
billion dollars on risky mortgage lending in the United States.


HSBC's US-listed shares were up 13 cents at 86.18 dollars while
Countrywide was 17 cents higher at 35.39 dollars.


Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond rose
to 4.579 percent from 4.547 percent Tuesday while that on the
30-year bond increased to 4.744 percent against 4.707 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

