

Two of the frontrunners in the French presidential race have
suggested boycotting the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing unless
China agrees to UN action to force Sudan to end the killings in
Darfur.


Segolene Royal and Francois Bayrou -- second and third in the
opinion polls -- attended a public meeting on the Darfur crisis
in Paris Tuesday evening, during which calls for an Olympic
boycott from several speakers drew enthusiastic applause.


Bayrou, of the centrist Union for French Democracy (UDF), said
that if Beijing continues to block UN Security Council
resolutions condemning Sudan, then "France will do itself honour
by refusing to take part in the Olympic Games."


"The place of France and the place of Europe is next to the
victims of the Darfur genocide," said Bayrou, who visited the
region of western Sudan two years ago.


Royal, who is the Socialist Party (PS) candidate, said that "it
is time to end the culpable inertia of France's Africa policy."


"They say that the Chinese will oppose all sanctions (against
Sudan). Now is the moment to put on the pressure ahead of the
Beijing Olympic Games," she said.


China is Sudan's most important international ally. It buys some
60 percent of Sudan's oil exports and has used its veto to block
resolutions condemning Khartoum in the UN Security Council.


Right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy, who leads in the polls
ahead of next month's election, sent a message to the meeting
calling for a "decisive toughening of sanctions against all the
leaders of the regime in Khartoum."


"Some measures should be taken immediately -- an asset freeze and
a refusal of visas for individuals implicated in the massacres.
If I am elected, France will unilaterally adopt these measures,"
he said.


All three of the candidates as well as the Communist Marie-
Georges Buffet have signed an eight-point statement in which they
commit themselves to urgent action to stop the Darfur killings.


Fighting between rebels and armed pro-government groups in Darfur
has killed 200,000 people and displaced more than two million in
the last four years, according to the UN.


Tuesday's meeting was organised by the action group Darfur
Emergency and the philosopher-writer Bernard-Henri Levy who has
just returned from the Sudanese province.


Levy read out a message from outgoing President Jacques Chirac,
who said that "If the attacks continue, if agreements are not
respected, the (United Nations) Security Council will have no
other choice but to adopt sanctions. We are already working on
it."

