

Ireland's Supreme Court on Wednesday more than doubled a damages
award for a publican wrongly jailed on the strength of perjured
police evidence to over 4.6 million euros (6.1 million dollars).


The ruling is just the latest blow to the reputation of the
police in the northwest county of Donegal bordering Northern
Ireland, which has been rocked by a series of corruption
scandals.


The five judges sitting found that Frank Shortt, 70, suffered a
"tormenting saga of imprisonment, mental and physical
deterioration, estrangement from family, loss of business, public
and professional ignominy and despair".


Shortt, a married father-of-five, was wrongly convicted and
sentenced to three years in prison in 1995 for allowing the sale
of drugs at his Quigley's Point pub in the county of Donegal.


He spent 27 months in prison before being freed by the Court of
Appeal. He appealed as inadequate an October 2005 decision of the
High Court to award him 1.93 million euros damages for the
miscarriage of justice.


Shortt's award follows a catalogue of police corruption unearthed
in Donegal that has shocked Ireland and led to a series of
damning judicial reports.


An inquiry set up by parliament in 2002 and headed by a former
High Court judge identified serious misconduct.


Officers even set up hoax Irish Republican Army (IRA) arms finds
to boost their chances of promotion.


In a hard-hitting ruling Wednesday, Chief Justice judge John
Murray said a police superintendent and a detective "engaged in a
conspiracy to concoct false evidence" against Shortt and that
perjury secured his conviction.


The officers' conduct was "probably constitutes the gravest
dereliction of duty and abuse of power that one could ever
fearfully contemplate would be engaged in by servants of the
State and officers of law and order," he added.


The facts and circumstances of the case were "a pot of iniquity"
and an apology from the State came late in the day.


The officers had sullied the reputation of the 12,500 strong
Garda Siochana (Irish police) and the affair was "regrettably a
stain of the darkest dye on the otherwise generally fine
tradition" of the force, Murray said.


Murray said the affair "cannot be bracketed as a couple of bad
apples in the proverbial barrel.


"The misconduct penetrated the system of law enforcement too
deeply and persisted over too long a period to be discounted in
such a fashion."


Murray said concrete independent evidence of the wrongful
conspiracy against Shortt only emerged in the course of an
official investigation into affairs in Donegal.

