

The idea of an OPEC-like cartel for gas producers, raised again
last month by Russian President Vladimir Putin but initially
rejected, will be discussed at a high-level summit next month.


According to Russian daily Kommersant, the leaders of the five
main gas producers -- Algeria, Iran, Russia, Qatar and Venezeula
-- have already decided to announce the formation of a cartel at
the meeting on April 9 in Doha.


Citing Arab diplomatic sources, Kommersant said a meeting of the
Gas Exporting Countries Forum in the Qatari capital "will be a
good time to announce the creation of a genuine gas cartel."


Algerian Energy Minister Chakib Khelil, who in February said a
gas cartel would be "too difficult" to set up, appeared to have
changed his mind earlier this week when he said it might be
possible if producers showed interest.


His shift came after Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said
in an interview in the Spanish newspaper El Pais last week that
the idea was "worth examining by all interested parties."


After Russia, Algeria is the main supplier of gas to Europe.


An Iranian proposal to form a gas cartel along the lines of the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is "in
line with trends which have surfaced through globalisation which
are pushing producers to come together to defend their
interests," Bouteflika said.


Last month, Putin described the idea as "interesting" although
sector experts believe it could never come to fruition given the
specific nature of the gas market.


Russia's massive gas resources account for nearly 30 percent of
known world reserves and 20 percent of world gas production.


Talk of a cartel gained momentum in August last year when
Europe's two main natural gas suppliers, Gazprom of Russia and
Algeria's Sonatrach, signed a partnership accord.


Western European countries are growing increasingly concerned
that Moscow may gain leverage over energy consumers by
coordinating supplies with other gas-rich nations.


The International Energy Agency warned in February that a gas
cartel would reduce demand and hurt producers.


"A cartel is always bad news for consumers and consumer
countries," the IEA said in a statement, adding: "Cartels are
also counterproductive for producing countries."


"Cartels distort behaviour and do not strengthen security of
supply," it said.


Analysts said the structure and technical limitations of the gas
market were not conducive to price fixing. Gas is negotiated in
the most part through deals between client and provider on long-
term contracts and is generally price- indexed to crude oil.


In addition the market is regionalised because gas is difficult
to transport, unlike crude. It has to be distributed by
underground pipelines or by ship over long distances. When
carried by ship, gas must be liquefied.


"The essential difference (between the oil and gas markets)
resides in the fact that OPEC's principal method of action is to
vary production to influence price," said oil and gas analyst
Francis Perrin.


Oil supplies move on and off markets within a few months,
allowing production variations to have rapid consequences for
prices, he added. Gas traded on financial markets represented
only a small fraction of world supply.


The vast majority of world gas sales were made by private
contract, generally indexed to oil prices, over long terms such
as 15 to 20 years.


Perrin said that while a cartel in the strict tradition of OPEC
might be unfeasible in the gas world, producers could still join
forces to obtain better terms on their existing contracts.


But even here there would be problems, as these contracts
represented "vital" lines of long-term finance which producers
might not want to jeopardise.


Analyst Andrei Fedorov from Alfa Bank said gas producers would
also have to deal with the inevitably negative reaction to the
formation of a cartel from their European clients, who would seek
to diversify their energy supplies.

