

Ukraine's parliament on Wednesday approved economist Arseniy
Yatsenyuk as foreign minister, confirming Kiev's generally pro-
Western course while likely putting the brakes on NATO
membership.


Despite being dominated by pro-Russian parties, parliament was
almost unanimous in its support for Yatsenyuk, 32, whose
candidacy was put forward by Western- leaning President Viktor
Yushchenko.


A total of 426 deputies voted in favour, easily passing the
required minimum of 226.


The foreign minister post had been vacant since the end of
January, when the country's former chief diplomat, pro-NATO Borys
Tarasyuk, resigned over conflicts with parliament.


Yatsenyuk, who has no experience in international diplomacy, told
parliament that Ukraine's pro-European policies would remain
unchanged. However, he avoided expressing support for NATO
membership.


"European integration is Ukraine's principal and unchanging
course," he said. "But Europe is not a goal in and of itself.
European values -- the reforms that we must accomplish on our
thorny road toward Europe -- are our objective."


Asked by deputies about his views on NATO, Yatsenyuk replied that
the foreign minister should "not have an opinion regarding the
foreign policy which is elaborated by the Ukrainian president in
constructive cooperation with parliament."


Analysts predicted a shift in priorities for the ex-Soviet
republic of 47 million people.


"The westward policy will be maintained. The policy will be pro-
European, but more flexible and with a focus on economic issues,"
said political analyst Volodymr Fesenko at the Penta Institute.
"Unlike Tarasyuk, he will not push for NATO membership."


Vadim Karassev, analyst at the Global Strategies Institute, said
Yatsenyuk was "a professional, not a politician" and "not a NATO
fan."


"Ukrainian foreign policy will concentrate on commercial ties and
the search for new markets. This will be a pragmatic and
realistic policy," Karassev said.


The economic minister under Yushchenko between September 2005 and
August 2006, Yatsenyuk is a fluent English speaker and had been
deputy head of the presidential administration since September
2006. He previously worked at Ukraine's central bank.


The parliament had repeatedly rejected Yushchenko's first choice
for foreign minister, Volodymyr Ohryzko, who was seen as too pro-
Western.


Yushchenko came to power on a wave of public support after the
2004 "orange revolution," a mass protest against a rigged
presidential election that was initially declared in favour of
the pro-Russian prime minister, Viktor Yanukovych.


Support for Yushchenko has since fallen sharply and Yanukovych
returned as prime minister after parliamentary elections last
year.

