

Spain's high court ordered pro-independence Basque leader Arnaldo
Otegi to be arrested and brought before it, after he failed to
turn up at his trial Wednesday on charges of "glorifying
terrorism."


Otegi, who is the spokesman of Batasuna, the banned political
wing of the Basque separatist group ETA, is embroiled in a series
of legal cases related to his activities with the group which the
Spanish judiciary banned in March 2003 over its alleged links
with ETA.


Earlier Wednesday, legal sources said Otegi had been caught in
the heavy snow afflicting much of northern Spain and the court
agreed to a mid-afternoon start -- only to learn later Otegi had
gone home.


Otegi had said through his lawyer Jone Goirizelaia he was stuck
on the motorway amid heavy snowfall.


The prosecution is calling for a jail term of 15 months for
Otegi, who is accused of paying public homage in 2001 to ETA
member Olaia Castresana, who died while preparing an explosive
device.


In November 2005, Otegi was handed a one-year term for calling
King Juan Carlos "chief torturer" of the Basques but avoided jail
as in Spain confirmed sentences of cumulatively less than two
years are only suspended.


He is also appealing against another 15-month sentence handed
down last year for paying tribute to another ETA member, Jose
Miguel Benalaran, which would have seen him jailed.


The supreme court will hear that appeal after municipal elections
on May 27 in which Batasuna is hoping to stand, although the
government insists that it must condemn separatist violence which
has cost 819 lives since 1968 as ETA strives for independence for
the northern Basque region.


On Tuesday, Otegi said it would be "an error" to pursue
independence through violence and added he was for achieving the
goal through "democratic means" but did not condemn ETA violence.


Thursday will mark a year since ETA declared a "permanent
ceasefire," which was shattered by a truck bomb blast on December
30 which killed two men at Madrid airport.

