

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi was set to begin delicate
talks Thursday with unions and employers on the country's social
safety net, notably the thorny issue of pension reform.


The talks come at a favorable moment for Prodi after news last
week that tax revenues this year will exceed forecasts by between
8.0-10 billion euros (10-13 billion dollars).


The announcement spurred numerous suggestions of how the windfall
could be spent, but Economy Minister Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa said
7.5 billion euros should be put aside for reducing Italy's
massive public deficit.


Prodi thus has around two billion euros at his disposal.


Padoa-Schioppa advocates tax cuts for business, but most unions
want to earmark the funds for families and workers with shaky job
security.


"Our impression is that the government doesn't want to spend the
necessary money to respond to expectations," said the head of the
moderate UIL union, Luigi Angeletti, calling for an accord to be
reached before local elections in May, the ANSA news agency
reported.


Pension reform in Europe's greyest country is a divisive issue
within Prodi's centre-left coalition, which includes far-left
elements as well as centrist parties.


The issue is the most delicate in the talks, which will also
cover Italy's competitiveness, reforming entitlement programmes
and overhauling public sector employment.


The unions want to overturn a measure passed in 2004 under
Prodi's predecessor Silvio Berlusconi under which the retirement
age will rise from 57 to 60 in 2008.


Another sensitive point is the revision of the criteria for
calculating government pensions to take into account longer life
expectancy.


Italian law requires that a coefficient used to calculate final
pension entitlements be revised every 10 years, but it was not
recalibrated in 2005.


"Life expectancy has increased by two years and three months in
the past 12 years," said Elsa Fornero, an economist at Turin
University. "Not revising these coefficients is tantamount to
offering two years of (extra) retirement to those concerned."


Negotiations on civil service employment are also expected to be
tough as unions are demanding retroactive pay increases of five
percent for the 2006-07 fiscal year and the hiring of 400,000
temporary employees.


The demand seems premature as Italian public accounts are only
beginning to recover less than a year since Prodi's centre-left
came to power vowing to rein in public spending.


Italy has the oldest population of the 25 European Union
countries, with one in five people over age 65, according to the
national statistical institute (ISTAT).


Over 80s made up more than five percent of the population in
2005.

