

President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy has won a clear mandate to carry
out tough social and economic reforms but must work to unite the
country as he pursues his programme, French newspapers said
Monday.


"The authoritative election of Nicolas Sarkozy is certainly one
that will make a lasting mark on the history of the country," the
conservative Le Figaro said after the right-wing Sarkozy defeated
his Socialist rival Segolene Royal.


"With the strong legitimacy his indisputable electoral
performance gives him, the new president of the Republic can now
begin his great transformation, while taking care, of course, to
reconcile the French, divided by the campaign."


Even the country's left-wing papers conceded that Sarkozy, a
former interior minister, had won a major victory.


Under the headline "The Shock" against a black background, the
communist daily L'Humanite called Sarkozy's election a
"catastrophe" for workers and young people, but admitted, "The
victory of the right cannot be disputed."


"Nicolas Sarkozy is a legitimate president, elected without
rotten tricks or hesitation," Liberation said in a commentary,
while La Croix, a left-of-centre Catholic paper, noted: "The
French have chosen. Their message is clear."


Sarkozy's campaign was based on the theme of "la rupture" -- a
clean break from past policies which he blames for creating
France's runaway debt, high unemployment and festering discontent
in the mainly immigrant suburbs.


His plans include the abolition of tax on overtime, big cuts in
inheritance tax, a law guaranteeing minimum service in transport
strikes, and rules to oblige the unemployed to take up offered
work.


On the social front he has pledged minimum jail terms for serial
offenders and tougher rules to make it harder for immigrants to
bring extended families to France.


His right-wing programme was in sharp contrast to Royal's promise
to extend state protection, create 500,000 jobs, and increase the
minimum wage.


The regional newspaper Ouest-France urged Sarkozy to follow
through on his victory pledge to be president for all the French.


"We are counting on the new president, to not only prove his
effectiveness, but to also forge a unity based on a respect for
equality, as that is the main condition for renewal," said
France's largest-circulation daily.


France's left-wing papers were not ready to concede defeat ahead
of parliamentary elections next month.


"The other France will seek to make up for it at the ballot box
in the legislative elections," wrote Liberation.


L'Humanite called for a counter-offensive.


"The voters cannot give the Sarkozyist right complete power ...
The political landscape for the next five years will only be
decided by the legislative elections on June 10 and 17," it said.

