

Day after day, cloistered Catholic nuns at a Sao Paulo monastery
roll up thousands of tiny prayer scrolls credited with the
miraculous powers of an 18th century monk the pope will elevate
to sainthood in this Brazilian city on Friday.


Outside the Monastery of Light, supplicants line up under a
scorching sun convinced the "Galvao pills" will cure them of
disease, infertility or abject poverty.


"My six-year-old girl suffers from leukemia, but I'm sure the
pills of Friar Galvao, our saint, will cure her," said Conceicao
Antunes.


Like many others, Antunes, a 35-year-old domestic employee, has
spent hours waiting for her turn to receive her snippet of
printed rice paper.


Next in line, is Henrique da Silva, a seemingly well-off 18-year-
old, who is confident the long-deceased monk will ensure he
passes his university admission exams.


Thousands of Brazilians believe they have been cured of diseases
doctors often thought incurable, thanks to the intervention of
Antonio de Sant'Ana Galvao.


When he is canonized by Pope Benedict the XVI at a mass in Sao
Paulo, Galvao will become first native-born saint in Brazil, the
world's largest Roman Catholic country.


The Church hopes the move will help reverse major inroads
evangelical faiths have made not only in Brazil, but also across
Latin America, which is home to almost half the world's 415
million Catholic population.


Galvao, who lived from 1739 to 1822, founded monasteries and
convents throughout Brazil, including the Monastery of Light.


He was beatified -- the step before canonization -- by Pope John
Paul II in 1998.


During the beatification homily, John Paul II said Galvao
"fulfilled his religious consecration by dedicating himself with
love and devotion to the afflicted, the suffering and the slaves
of his era in Brazil."


But to the faithful, the 18th century priest is best known for
what many believe are his healing powers.


The Vatican recognized two of the miracles attributed to Galvao,
a requirement for sainthood. In 1990, a four-year-old girl
recovered from what was considered incurable hepatitis, and in
1999 a mother and child survived a high-risk birth in what the
Vatican called a "scientifically inexplicable" case.


The girl and the woman had both swallowed Galvao's miracle pills,
which contain a short prayer to the Virgin Mary.


"The Church recommends that people go to the doctor and only take
the pill when they are terminally ill," said Sister Claudia of
the Monastery of Light.


"But people take them for daily problems," she said.


Records at the monastery of Light, show 8,057 cases in which
supplicants' prayers to Galvao were answered since the priest was
beatified.


"Devotion increased since he was beatified," said Sister Claudia.
"And now that he will be declared a saint the number of followers
will grow, and not just because of the pills," she said.

