

Iraqi and American forces battled to regain the initiative Monday
after two days of intense violence in and around Baghdad left
dozens of Iraqis, 11 US soldiers and a European journalist dead.


Sunday saw a fierce surge in insurgent attacks, including a car
bombing in a Baghdad shopping street, a suicide assault on a
Samarra police station and a deadly ambush on an American patrol
north of the capital.


"There are going to be these rough spots and the enemy is not
just going to sit back and wait for us to clean them out and be
done with it," said Major Joe Edstrom, a US military public
affairs officer.


"We have to expect that there will be days like this. We are just
going to do what they always do and just drive on, press forward,
take measures and steps and ensure that there are not more
casualties," he said.


In Sunday's bloodiest attack, a car bomb ripped through a crowded
street in Bayaa, a mainly Shiite commercial area of Baghdad,
demolishing two shops and killing at least 33 people.


Such spectacular massacres are carried out by Sunni insurgents to
discredit Iraq's fragile government and its US allies, while
provoking Shiite reprisals and leaving the country all but
ungovernable.


Baghdad and Washington have responded with a massive security
plan, backed up by a 28,000-strong "surge" in US troop
reinforcements, designed to quell sectarian fighting and hunt
down the car bomb gangs.


But the security forces themselves sometimes fall victim to
increasingly audacious insurgent attacks, particularly in a belt
of violent cities and rural communities in the lawless region
around the capital.


On Sunday, insurgents ambushed a US patrol in Diyala province
northeast of Baghdad, killing six American soldiers and a
civilian European journalist travelling with them. Two more
soldiers on the patrol were injured.


The US military has released few details of the attack, in which
a Stryker armoured vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb.


Iraqi police officials told AFP that a US convoy was ambushed by
insurgents near the village Zaghaniya, five kilometres (three
miles) north of Baquba, but it was not clear if they were
referring to the same attack.


The journalist who died in the ambush has yet to be identified.


Also on Sunday, an Iraqi police station in the restive Sunni city
of Samarra was attacked by a suicide bomber who ploughed a van
packed with explosives into the gate during a fierce gunbattle
between police and insurgents.


American troops from a nearby base of the 82nd Airborne Division
rushed to the scene and fought a running street battle with the
fleeing attackers, but 12 Iraqi police were killed and 11 wounded
in the attack, the US military said.


The Samarra attack was the third in four days against police
bases housing Sunni officers recruited by the government to fight
the Sunni-led insurgency after several Iraqi tribes switched
their allegiance to Baghdad.


In Baghdad, US and Iraqi forces remained on the offensive and
killed between eight and ten Shiite extremists in a raid on a
militant safe house, they said.


US military spokesman Major General William Caldwell said the
gang was suspected of importing deadly armour piercing bombs from
Iran and, although the raiding party did not catch the suspect
they were looking for, US forces find 150 mortar rounds and a
torture chamber.


"They found a room that clearly had bloodstains in it, handcuffs,
a facial mask... all the signs exhibited the conditions we've
seen before in other rooms that have been used to kill people and
conduct torture," he said.


The raiders called in an air strike after coming under fire
during the raid, and afterwards destroyed the building with
demolition charges.

