

The United Nations on Monday called for calm in East Timor in the
run-up to this week's presidential election, the first in the
troubled nation since it gained independence in 2002.


The UN mission in the tiny state urged voters to accept the
result of Wednesday's run-off, amid concerns of fresh outbreaks
of violence by supporters of the losing candidate.


Nobel laureate and current prime minister Jose Ramos-Horta will
face ruling Fretilin party candidate Francisco "Lu-Olo" Guterres
in Wednesday's vote, after neither won a majority in the first-
round polls last month.


The East Timorese are hopeful the new president will help
stabilise the impoverished nation beset by violence and regional
rivalry.


Campaigning has been peaceful for the election, amid tight
security provided by thousands of UN and local police, backed by
international peacekeeping troops, deployed in the wake of unrest
last year.


"There have been no major incidents of violence or intimidation
reported to the United Nations mission here during the election
process," said UN police spokeswoman Allison Cooper.


"We are confident that the election will proceed smoothly."


Asked if the mission was concerned violence would erupt once the
result was declared, Cooper said: "We would urge all people in
East Timor to remain calm and peaceful -- so far this has been a
free and fair process."


Ramos-Horta is favoured to win after most of the six losing
candidates in the April 9 election urged their supporters to back
him, observers say.


Observers have warned that supporters of Guterres, whose party
was founded as a resistance movement that fought for independence
from Portugal and later Indonesia, could resort to violence
should he lose.


Fretilin retains a strong support base in this nation of one
million people.


Guterres, the party president and speaker of the parliament, on
Sunday urged his supporters to peacefully accept the result.


Troops were dispatched after unrest in May last year that killed
at least 37 people and forced more than 150,000 to flee their
homes. About 37,000 people are still displaced in the capital
Dili.


East Timor, formally known as Timor-Leste, gained independence
after a period of UN stewardship that followed 24 years of
occupation by Indonesia.

