

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso congratulated
Nicolas Sarkozy Sunday on his French presidential election
victory and was hopeful he could help end the EU's institutional
woes.


"I know Nicolas Sarkozy very well, and I am aware of his desire
for France to take its rightful place on the European stage,"
Barroso said in a statement, after the rightwinger's victory was
announced.


"I have complete confidence in Nicolas Sarkozy ... to play a
driving role in resolving the institutional question and
consolidating European politics," he said.


French voters -- as well as those in the Netherlands -- sent the
EU spiralling into its worst-ever crisis two years ago when they
rejected the bloc's draft constitution in a referendum.


EU leaders are seeking to draw up a new treaty of reforms by
2009, so that the impasse does not become an issue in campaigning
for the next European elections that year.


According to early results in France, Sarkozy won around 53
percent of Sunday's second round poll, beating out a challenge
from Socialist rival Segolene Royal. Voter turnout was high.


"I am overjoyed at the perspective of working together to
reinforce the European Union," he said. "It's what our fellow
citizens expect of us."


"France has always played a central role in European politics and
there can be no strong Europe without a European France," he
said.


When asked later about Sarkozy's stance on Turkey's EU
membership, which the French rightwinger opposes, Barroso urged
France to wait until the accession negotiations with Ankara had
come to an end.


"We negotiate with Turkey on the basis of a mandate that was
decided unanimously with the (EU) member states," he told
reporters.


"The Commission's position is that we should continue these
negotiations and we recommend to the member states only to take a
decision on whether or not Turkey should join based on the
results of these negotiations."


EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot, a Frenchman, also
congratulated Sarkozy and French voters for turning out in such
great number.


"I would like, under his impetus, for France to find a new
dynamism and undertake the reforms that are a condition for
success," he said.


"France has great responsibility in Europe. From the renewal of
its institutions, to be addressed at the next European Council
(summit) June 21 and 22, to the great projects of the future like
energy, research, defence and diplomacy, the voice of France is
awaited," he said.


Barrot said the elections had also "proven the vitality of French
democracy through a record turnout, and the rejection of
extremism."

