

Australia does not have a team in the Super 14 semi-finals for
the first time in nine seasons, but national coach John Connolly
says the Wallabies will be strong for this year's rugby World
Cup.


The press has harshly criticised Australia's Super 14 season,
with none of the four domestic franchises qualifying for the
playoffs and traditional powers Queensland and NSW finishing
bottom and second last in the standings.


The regular season ended on a calamitous note for Australia when
the Queensland Reds were thrashed 92-3 by the Northern Bulls in
Pretoria, eclipsing the record for the heaviest loss, the NSW
Waratahs' 96-19 hammering by New Zealand's Canterbury Crusaders
in 2002.


Queensland's capitulation snuffed out the ACT Brumbies'
mathematical chances of sneaking into the playoffs.


Despite Queensland's dismal performance, Connolly said he was
pleased with how Australian teams finished the Super 14
competition.


The Brumbies registered their sixth consecutive win with a
historic victory over the Otago Highlanders in Dunedin; the
Waratahs spoiled Tana Umaga's farewell party by beating the
Hurricanes in Wellington; and Western Force won three home
matches straight before losing to the Auckland Blues.


"Three of our four teams finished on a high," Connolly told The
Australian newspaper Monday.


"And as far as the Wallabies are concerned, I've said from day
one, even when the Australian teams were starting slowly, that
once we got our top XV on the field, we'd be comfortable,
provided the players came through the Super 14 in reasonably good
shape."


The Wallabies' injury list is diminishing, with flanker Phil
Waugh playing in the Waratahs' last match, scrum-half Sam
Cordingley coming through his first outing of the season without
problems, lock Dan Vickerman set to return from his shoulder
reconstruction next weekend and fullback Chris Latham and prop
Greg Holmes progressing well after surgery.


Queensland's dire finish to the season has left Connolly with
some remedial work to restore the confidence of Queensland's few
Test contenders.


"It is an issue when players have gone through what they've gone
through," Connolly said.


Connolly on Monday named a 59-strong train-on squad, with a
30-man party for the two Welsh Tests later this month to be
announced on May 20.


Wales are in Australia's group for the World Cup starting in
France in September.

