

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Sunday she was convinced
that French president-elect Nicolas Sarkozy would maintain the
French-German axis at the heart of the European Union.


Congratulating her fellow conservative on his victory in the
presidential runoff, Merkel said that under him "the German-
French friendship will continue to be the basis to secure lasting
peace, democracy and prosperity in Europe."


Merkel said that at such a decisive period for Europe, "it is
important to continue the close, trusting and intensive
cooperation between Germany and France."


The chancellor said she was looking forward to meeting Sarkozy in
the near future "for a first exchange of views."


The partnership between France and Germany has often been
described as the "motor" of the EU and Berlin is expected to be
one of the first foreign visits that Sarkozy makes.


Germany holds the rotating six-month presidency of the EU until
the end of June and is trying to win approval from the member
states to revive as much as possible of an existing draft treaty
at an intergovernmental conference later this year.


French voters rejected the draft constitution in a referendum in
2005 which, coupled with a similar "no" vote from the
Netherlands, plunged the EU into chaos.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said he hoped
Berlin and Paris would work closely together on "important
European projects" under Sarkozy.


"I hope for a close German-French partnership," Steinmeier, a
Social Democrat, said during a visit to Jerusalem.


"Of course I hope the cooperation will lead to progress on
important European projects," he added in a reference to the
moribund draft constitution.


German President Horst Koehler also congratulated Sarkozy and
said he hoped he would work to nurture the French-German
partnership.


"Only together and in a strong Europe can we face up to the
biggest challenges of our times," Koehler said.


Outgoing French President Jacques Chirac visited Berlin last
Thursday and was praised by Merkel for helping to develop the
close ties between the two countries.

