

A botched bid to take over Australia's Qantas Airways may not
have failed after all, the prospective buyer said Monday, as the
stop-start deal took a confusing new twist.


Hours after the Takeover Panel refused a final appeal by a
private equity group to revive its 11.1-billion-dollar (9.2
billion US) offer, the panel asked for urgent clarification from
APA of a claim that the bid may still be alive.


The deal initially collapsed Friday when the prospective buyer,
Airline Partners Australia (APA), failed to get the 50 percent
shareholder support it needed before Friday's 7:00 pm (0900 GMT)
deadline.


It conceded failure but soon revised its position, saying it
would seek the Takeover Panel's consent to include late backing
from an American investment fund that would have pushed
acceptances to 50.6 percent.


The panel however on Sunday refused to recognise the late entry,
saying the deadline was final. On Monday, it also refused an
appeal of its decision by APA, apparently snuffing out any hope
of reviving the ill-fated takeover.


But by Monday afternoon, APA said it still had a chance of
prevailing if it successfully invoked clause in its takeover
offer to convert partial acceptances into full ones, meaning that
it would have had the 50 percent required to pursue the deal
before Friday's deadline.


"We believe the operation of this clause in the acceptance
contract would enable the bid to have in excess of 50 percent of
shares at the time of the deadline and therefore the bid would
automatically be extended for two weeks," an APA spokesman told
the Australian Associated Press.


The clause in question states that shareholders selling into the
Qantas offer cannot sell only part of their holdings -- they must
give up all of their shares if they intend to sell at all.


Many institutional investors reportedly provided only limited
share support for the deal but if those partial sales were to be
fully converted, the acceptance level of the bid could well
surpass 60 percent.


The APA invoked the clause in a submission to the takeover
regulator, prompting that body to Monday ask APA to urgently
clarify the situation.


"The Panel noted APA's submissions that as a result of clause 7.3
(f)(i) of the APA offer, APA may have met the 50 percent
threshold prior to the scheduled close of the APA offer and thus
the APA offer may have been extended," the Takeovers Panel said
in a statement.


"APA should clarify whether this is the situation or not as soon
as possible," it said.


As lawyers wrangled over whether the clause had effect, Qantas
said Australia's securities watchdog had requested a halt in
trading of its shares to "query the suggestion" made.


But some market analysts said the trading halt was more an
opportunity to clear up outstanding details so that the bid could
be declared dead officially.


The legal counter-attack is only one plank of APA's strategy to
keep its takeover alive, with the consortium also announcing it
is considering a fresh bid.

