

A private equity group that saw its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2
billion US) takeover bid for Qantas Airways implode in chaos at
the weekend said Monday it may make a fresh offer for the
carrier.


Qantas announced shortly afterwards that trading in its shares
would remain suspended until Wednesday pending an announcement by
the airline.


The private equity group Airline Partners Australia (APA) said it
may make a new offer after the country's takeover regulator
rejected a final appeal against its decision to declare the
original bid dead.


"Discussions with regulators since the Friday deadline under
APA's offer have not resulted in APA being able to include a late
acceptance which would have resulted in a two-week extension of
APA's offer," APA said.


"In view of the fact that a majority of Qantas shareholders
lodged acceptances for APA's offer, APA is exploring a number of
alternatives including the possibility of making a renewed offer
for Qantas at 5.45 dollars per share," it added.


The latest development came after APA's six-month-old bid for the
iconic Australian carrier flew into a violent storm that quickly
reduced the much- touted deal to what media and analysts
described as a chaotic "debacle."


The bid initially collapsed late Friday after it failed to garner
the required 50 percent shareholder support by a 7:00 pm (0900
GMT) deadline, prompting the private equity group to publicly
concede defeat.


But a few hours later, APA declared that the deal was not dead as
a major American investment fund had decided shortly after the
deadline had passed to back the deal, pushing acceptances to 50.6
percent.


Those hopes were however dashed Sunday when the Takeovers Panel
refused to count the late acceptances. APA immediately appealed
the rejection but the panel early Monday ruled that the decision
would stand.


"The panel met urgently late (Sunday) in response to an
application for the review of the initial panel's decision not to
commence proceedings (on the offer)," the Takeover Panel said in
a statement.


"The review panel has also declined to commence proceedings," it
said, adding the reasons for the final ruling would be published
as soon as possible.


Treasurer Peter Costello said that any new offer would have to go
through the same process the failed bid had gone through.


That would include an examination by the Foreign Investments
Review Board and a cross-check against the regulations which
govern ownership of the national carrier.


"What happens in the future, if anyone wants to lodge a new bid,
the whole thing starts again, everything starts again," Costello
told reporters.


"It's just like we were right back at the beginning of this whole
episode."


Costello said any new takeover bid would be subject to the
government's commitment to maintain majority Australian ownership
of Qantas.


"I make this clear, the government will not allow majority
foreign ownership in Qantas," he said.


"Qantas will have majority Australian ownership and no bid which
doesn't continue majority Australian ownership will be allowed to
go to the shareholders."


Asked if he was relieved the takeover bid had failed, Costello
replied: "That is a matter for the shareholders themselves. They
owned it.


"I said they had the right to deal with it. A majority of them
didn't want to sell. The bid fails.


"The old board and the old management now have the obligation to
state what they intend to do."

