

After clinching victory over his rival, Viktor Yanukovych, in a
constitutional feud, Ukraine's pro-Western President Viktor
Yushchenko faced a tricky task Monday to pin down details of
their compromise.


Officials from the rival camps, Yushchenko's and Prime Minister
Yanukovych's, were expected to put forward their proposals for a
special session of parliament after they ended their month-long
row on Friday.


Outside powers have closely watched the struggle, anxious about
the political course of this country of 47 million people which
lies between the European Union and NATO to the west, and Russia
to the east.


Yushchenko has declared joining NATO a key objective while
Yanukovych opposes the idea.


The special session reconvening parliament is required to decide
arrangements for holding parliamentary elections.


It was Yushchenko's decision to dissolve parliament on April 2
and to hold fresh elections that sparked a political crisis as
Yanukovych tried to resist by bringing his supporters onto the
streets.


Yushchenko had watched with alarm as the pro-Russian governing
coalition in parliament tried to undermine him by reducing his
powers and luring deputies into switching sides.


Under Friday's deal, Yushchenko is expected to try to use the
parliamentary session to secure several political goals in
addition to fixing an election date.


The deal foresees a reaffirmation by parliament of Yushchenko's
Western course, a ban on deputies switching sides and the
annulment of a law that reduced the president's powers.


But analysts said the prime minister's camp might yet blanch at
those demands, while the election date is a contentious subject.


If, as Yushchenko proposes, parliament meets on Tuesday,
elections would be due within 60 days and would thus be likely
around the start of July.


But the governing coalition has said it would prefer a date in
the autumn.


"The negotiations will be very difficult," predicted political
analyst Mikhailo Pogrebinsky.


"They'll probably last a week... I don't think the coalition will
make additional concessions apart from adopting the documents on
the elections," he said.


Analyst Vadim Karasyov, of the Institute of Global Strategies,
predicted that Yushchenko would seek the government's resignation
in exchange for agreeing to an autumn date.


The pro-presidential parties have been boosted by Yushchenko's
out-gunning of Yanukovych, which he did through such wiles as
dismissing two constitutional court judges and a prosecutor
general considered loyal to the prime minister.


Usually accused of vacillation, Yushchenko's firmness "will
reinforce the ratings of his party at the elections," although no
party can expect an outright majority, said Pogrebinsky.

