

The Asian Development Bank faces an uncertain future after
failing to reach a clear consensus on how to reform in response
to Asia's rapid but increasingly uneven economic growth.


The ADB wraps up its annual meeting here Monday amid disquiet
among many members about proposals for the multilateral lending
institution to focus more on the needs of middle-income countries
in the region.


While delegates were generally in favour of an overhaul to ensure
the bank's continued relevance, many urged the ADB not to lose
sight of its original mandate to lift millions of Asians out of
poverty.


"While a larger number of countries in the region will become
middle-income countries, some will remain low-income countries,"
Cambodia's ADB governor, Keat Chhon, warned a session of the
bank's 67 member countries.


"There will still be a significant number of poor in the region.
Our view is that the ADB should continue to focus on poverty
alleviation in these low-income economies until this mission is
accomplished."


David Adeang, the governor for Nauru who spoke on behalf of the
Pacific developing nations, also urged the ADB not to abandon the
most fragile nations.


"The ADB still has a vital role to play in helping its poorest
members achieve the conditions necessary for economic growth and
alleviation of poverty. We cannot overlook those small,
vulnerable and weakly performing states that are heavily
dependent on expert advice and support from ADB," he said.


The four-decade-old ADB is looking to forge a new role for
itself, predicting that thanks to Asia's rapid export-driven
growth, most countries in the region will have escaped widespread
poverty by 2020.


The ADB's main aim when it was set up in 1966 was to tap capital
markets to raise funds for developing Asian economies unable to
do so themselves.


Now the ADB is looking to play a greater role in fostering
regional economic cooperation and knowledge creation.


It also aims to focus its investment more on telecommunications
networks, new roads and other infrastructure, and on clean energy
projects to try to reduce rising greenhouse gas emissions.


An outside panel of experts appointed by the bank last month
urged the ADB to radically transform itself but some of its
proposals, such as for the bank to manage a part of Asia's
foreign exchange reserves, have met with resistance.


The United States and European nations joined some of Asia's
poorest nations in pressuring the development bank to not to
scale down the fight against poverty.


"The ADB needs to strengthen its internal commitment to poverty
reduction and the challenges facing low-income countries," said
Sweden's head delegate Johanna Brismar Skoog.


"Poverty and inequality still persist in low- and middle-income
countries alike," added Austria's acting governor Marcus Heinz.


"We believe the ADB must address this issue in a much more pro-
active way than suggested in the (experts') report," he said.


The United States has even suggested that the ADB should prepare
to wind up its activities once its job is done, warning the
lender against trying to step on the toes of other multilateral
institutions or the private sector.


The ADB has also come under fire from environmentalists who
accuse it of contributing to global climate change through its
funding of coal-fired power plants.


"Supporting renewable energies without phasing out coal is only
half of the solution to climate change ... the climate cannot be
half saved," Greenpeace climate campaigner Athena Ballesteros
said.

