

Turkish newspapers Monday raised the possibility of a risk to
Ankara's ambitions to join the European Union and bilateral ties
with Paris after rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy won the French
presidential poll.


"Alas! It is Sarko," the popular Aksam daily said on its front
page while the Milliyet newspaper said: "Sarkozy the new obstacle
on the path towards EU."


Sarkozy's election "will increase the potential of already chilly
Turkish-French ties to worsen," Milliyet said.


"But it is not impossible for Sarkozy, who is more of a pragmatic
politician than an ideologue, to change his stance once he
becomes president," it added.


In his election campaign which won him 53 percent of the vote in
Sunday's polls, Sarkozy often spoke out against Turkey's
ambitions to become an EU member, arguing that Ankara "has no
place" inside the bloc.


The popular Vatan daily said Sarkozy's election would prove a
"turning point" in Turkey's troubled ties with the European
Union.


"If he implements what he has so far said, Turkish-EU ties will
be dragged into a tense adventure. Such a tense situation has the
potential to affect Turkish- French ties," it said.


Bilateral ties between Ankara and Paris took a blow in October
last year when the French National Assembly passed a bill that
makes it a jailable offense to deny that Ottoman Turks committed
genocide against Armenians during World War I.


The bill, which has yet to go before the Senate and then back to
the lower house before becoming law, angered Turkey which
categorically rejects that the killings of Armenians constituted
genocide.


According to the Turkish press, Sarkozy also said that if he was
elected president, he would sign the bill into law as opposed to
outgoing President Jacques Chirac.


Semih Idiz, a political commentator writing in Milliyet, said
Sarkozy was a "coarse representation of the basic fears and
concerns of the French people" on issues such as the integration
of Muslims and immigrants as well as Turkey's eventual EU
membership.


"The real fear of Sarkozy and people who think alike is a growing
Turkey that can compete and has a greater strategic importance
than France," he said.


"The rise of a Muslim-populated country and the possibility of it
having an equal say with France in the EU cannot be easy to
swallow for 'sugar-coated crypto-fascists'," he added.

