

Hungarian dailies on Monday highlighted the immigrant background
of French president-elect Nicolas Sarkozy, who is the son of a
Hungarian immigrant.


"For the next five years the 52-year-old Nicolas Sarkozy, of
Hungarian origin, will move into the Elysee palace," the biggest
circulation news daily, the centre-left Nepszabadsag, wrote on
its front page.


"Why did the French vote for the son of a Hungarian refugee with
an unpronouncable last name? ... Because when someone has a
serious ailment he turns to a doctor. And he is the best doctor
right now for France," Nepszabadsag said in an editorial.


Right-wing opposition daily Magyar Nemzet said in an editorial
that "the son of the Hungarian immigrant advanced two steps at a
time up the ladder until reaching the pinnacle of the Elysee
Palace, where from now on the guards will salute him."


"This young man was not the child of the French bourgeoisie or
aristocracy... When others dreamt of being a fireman, soldier or
shepherd (a famous citation from a Hungarian children's poem), he
dreamt of one day becoming the president of France," Magyar
Nemzet wrote.


"He knew that the press would try to demonize him, pull out the
'Hungarian card,' but he always had something up his sleeve to
hit back," the daily wrote.


Regarding French-Hungarian relations, Magyar Nemzet said
relations would be closer with France if the right-wing
opposition was in power in Hungary instead of the governing
Socialists and Liberals.


"If there was a change of government at home there would be an
ideological and personal link between the Hungarian and French
leaders, but even then Sarkozy would only act in the interest of
Hungary if that was also in the French interest," Magyar Nemzet
said.


"...(Sarkozy) only has one home: France. Still, it's nice to hear
that all of the Hungarian media 'mispronounce' his name," Magyar
Nemzet writes, referring to the Hungarian pronunciation of the
next president's name (Shaarkoezi).


Left-wing daily Nepszava recalled on its front page that the next
French president's father was born in 1928 in Budapest as Pal
Sarkozy Bocsai Nagy, who fled Hungary in 1944.


Sarkozy was elected French president after defeating Socialist
rival Segolene Royal in Sunday's run-off election.

