

Rescue teams on Monday prepared to battle a rough terrain in
swampland in southwest Cameroon to access the wreckage of a
crashed Kenyan Airways plane carrying 114 people, a Kenyan
official said.


"It is a very bad terrain ... they will to cut through the
mangrove and access the crash site, then try to retrieve what
they have to retrieve," said the official with the Kenyan Civil
Aviation Authority, asking not to be named.


Cameroon's army cordoned off an area south of Douala around the
scene of the crash, that occured in the early hours of Saturday,
after flight KQ 507 vanished from radar screens in a violent
storm on its way from Douala to Nairobi.


A Kenya Airways official said there was "practically no chance"
of finding any survivors in the wreckage of the passenger jet.


"Given the situation there is practically no chance there will be
any survivors," said the official who spoke on condition of
anonymity.


The exact sequence of tragedy remained unclear, although a Kenyan
official said the six-month-old plane may have been hit by
lightning.


Mohamed Ramtu of a Kenyan delegation of 35 officials in Cameroon
told AFP that they were trying to reach the site of the crash.


"We are determined in this rescue operation even though we do not
have all (the equipment) we need at the moment," he said.


The Boeing 737-800 began its journey in the Ivory Coast city of
Abidjan, and collected passengers on a stopover in Douala before
heading for Nairobi.


The plane was carrying 105 passengers from at least 23 countries.
Most had been planning to connect through Nairobi to other
destinations outside Kenya.


The US embassy in Nairobi expressed sympathy for the victims of
the tragedy and said the US National Transportation and Safety
Board would help investigate the cause of the crash.


"Our thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of
all those who perished," it said in a statement.


In Nairobi, families of the flight's nine Kenyan crew members
waited in agony for confirmation of the fate of those on board
the plane.

