

Media mogul Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation has sold its 7.5
percent stake in its main Australian rival Fairfax Media Ltd, a
company spokesman said Monday.


News Corp led a surprise raid on Fairfax in October, spending
some 360 million dollars (295 million US) to snap up what Murdoch
called a strategic holding.


But a spokesman for News said the group had sold its stake in
Fairfax, which publishes The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age and
The Australian Financial Review newspapers.


"We definitely have sold our stake in Fairfax and we have no
further comment," the spokesperson told the Australian Associated
Press.


News Corp made the investment ahead of a relaxation in
Australia's media ownership laws which came to effect last month,
sparking speculation it was positioning itself for deregulation
of the sector.


The new legislation cleared media companies to own two, not just
one, out of three mediums -- newspapers, radio and television --
in any single market, and lifted a ban on foreign ownership.


Fairfax was considered an obvious takeover target under the new
laws because it is the only major Australian news group without a
single controlling shareholder.


But since the new laws were passed, Fairfax has agreed to merge
with Rural Press Ltd to create a 9.0 billion dollar print and
online media group.


Murdoch's divestment suggests that any potential takeover bid for
the Fairfax group has now passed.


At the time of the acquisition, Murdoch said it was not a hostile
move but a strategic stake.


"Ours is more a friendly move for the existing regime at Fairfax
now," he told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"It's just a strategic holding. We don't have any particular
plans for it -- certainly no plans to take over Fairfax."


News Corp owns a powerful stable of 175 newspapers, including The
Times of London, The Sun tabloid, the New York Post, The
Australian as well as cable television network Fox and satellite
broadcasters DirecTV and BSkyB.


Analysts said the latest move suggests that the global media
giant is less interested in increasing its Australian assets,
just days after it made a surprise five billion US dollar bid for
The Wall Street Journal parent Dow Jones & Co.

