

The Cleveland Cavaliers overcame lackluster shooting to defeat
the New Jersey Nets 81-77 Sunday in the opener of their National
Basketball Association Eastern Conference second-round playoff
series.


Drew Gooden had 14 points and 14 rebounds, helping the Cavaliers
cash in on second chances and hold on for the victory.


LeBron James had 21 points, 11 boards and seven assists for the
second-seeded Cavs, who remained unbeaten in the postseason
despite shooting just 40 percent from the field.


James, feeling the effects of a cold, made just 8-of-21 shots.


"It's the playoffs, you have to battle through it," James said.
"No matter what it took, I was going to be out on the court
helping my teammates get a win."


The Cavaliers were playing for the first time in six days and
appeared to be ripe to be upset by the Nets, who are in the
conference semi-finals for the fifth time in six years.


But Cleveland minimized the effect of their misses by pulling
down 20 offensive rebounds that led to 19 second-chance points.


"When you shoot 40 percent, there are a lot of rebounds to get,"
Cavaliers guard Larry Hughes said. "We were able to get them and
give ourselves another chance to put the ball in the bucket."


Leading the way was Gooden, who sparked a flurry midway through
the fourth quarter that was enough to carry Cleveland to its
fifth straight playoff victory.


Cleveland still needed some key plays down the stretch and got an
unlikely one from guard Sasha Pavlovic, who raced back on defense
and blocked a breakaway layup by New Jersey's Jason Kidd to
preserve a 77-73 edge with 1:45 remaining.


In the final minute, Hughes and James - who combined to shoot
15-of-41 from the floor - made baskets that also kept it a two-
possession game.


Game two is in Cleveland on Tuesday.


The teams are meeting in the postseason for the first time since
1993, when Cleveland eliminated New Jersey in the first round for
the second straight year.


The other Eastern Conference semi-final series continues on
Monday, with the Detroit Pistons trying to extend their lead over
Chicago to 2-0.


Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton each scored 20 points as
the top-seeded Pistons coasted to a convincing 95-69 victory in
game one on Saturday.

