

The European Union and the United States led congratulations
Sunday to French election winner Nicolas Sarkozy, who is expected
to forge closer ties to Washington and work to raise Europe's
global standing.


US President George W. Bush was among the first world leaders to
telephone Sarkozy to congratulate him on his convincing victory
over socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal in the
runoff election.


"The United States and France are historic allies and partners.
President Bush looks forward to working with president-elect
Sarkozy as we continue our strong alliance," said Gordon
Johndroe, spokesman for the White House National Security
Council.


European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he had
"full confidence" in the 52-year-old right-winger to "provide a
driving force" for reform in the 27-country bloc.


Barroso said in a statement: "I rejoice at the prospect of
working together for the strengthening of the European Union, in
a spirit of open-mindedness, for a Europe that does not withdraw
on itself but, strong in its values and assets, will win over the
challenge of globalisation."


German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sarkozy would strengthen the
French-German axis at the heart of the EU, expressing hope that
under him, their countries' friendship "will continue to be the
basis to secure lasting peace, democracy and prosperity in
Europe."


By late afternoon, some 75.11 percent of France's 44.5 million
eligible voters had cast ballots to choose a successor to
President Jacques Chirac, the highest turnout since the 1965
election won by Charles de Gaulle.


According to projections, Sarkozy won 53 percent of the vote
compared to 47 percent for Royal.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair telephoned Sarkozy to
congratulate him on his win, and Spain's Socialist Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero praised him as a "solid politician."


He "represents an open and modern right" that would help France
"recover its self-assurance and keep being a part of the European
locomotive in the 21st century", a statement from Zapatero's
office said.


Italian centre-left Prime Minister Romano Prodi said Sarkozy had
won a "handsome victory", saying: "My country, my government and
myself, personally, continue to consider France as a key ally and
you, personally, as a friend."


Former Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, a conservative,
added: "This clear victory by Nicolas Sarkozy demonstrates the
desire for change that is present across Europe and not only in
France."


Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende praised the French
people for choosing "change and modernisation", while Danish
Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen urged a "rapid
clarification" of Sarkozy's position on a proposed EU
constitution which was rejected by French voters in a referendum
in 2005.


Sarkozy has proposed a "mini-treaty" cherry-picking the practical
parts of the constitution, which could be ratified by parliament,
not by referendum.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert expressed hope that he and
Sarkozy could work together towards peace in the Middle East.


Congratulations also came from French-speaking parts of Africa,
where Sarkozy has promised an overhaul of relations and tacitly
criticised Chirac's "personal" ties with the leaders of
questionable regimes.


Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said the French people
had "chosen in you a man of heart and of action."


Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade added: "It is with personal
pleasure that I offer you my warmest congratulations on your
brilliant election... which shows unmistakably the trust in your
social project."


In Hungary, the president-elect's 92-year-old great aunt said she
was "elated" but "not the least bit surprised" that the son of a
Hungarian immigrant had risen to become the ruler of France.


"I don't want to sound arrogant, but I could have predicted two
years ago that he would win. He has such drive, has so much
experience and is so talented and intelligent," Mariann Sarkozy
told AFP.

