

A coalition government in Scotland appeared less likely on Monday
after the Liberal Democrats, regarded as the most likely partner
for both of the two biggest parties in the Scottish parliament,
seemed to rule themselves out of joining a government.


The party's leader in Scotland said late on Sunday that he would
not work with the Scottish National Party (SNP), the largest bloc
in Scotland's parliament after last week's election, so long as
it insisted on holding a referendum on independence.


Earlier on Sunday, a senior Lib Dem lawmaker said his party would
not work with Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour Party, which had
ruled Scotland in a coalition with the Lib Dems.


The SNP won 47 seats in the election which, while not enough to
rule alone, means they could secure a one-seat majority in the
129-member Scottish Parliament if they teamed up with the Liberal
Democrats, who won 16 seats, and the Greens, on two.


Labour won 46 seats, and the Conservatives won 17 in the
assembly, which has powers over a wide variety of policy areas,
including health and education.


After a meeting with SNP leader Alex Salmond, Scottish Lib Dem
leader Nicol Stephen said: "I made it clear to him that unless
and until the SNP removes the fundamental barrier of a referendum
during the next four years, there can be no coalition."


Lawmaker Tavish Scott, who directed the party's election
campaign, was earlier asked on BBC television whether he was
ruling out a coalition with Labour and responded: "Yes."


Labour insisted on Sunday that the possibility of it forming a
government had not been ruled out, with a party spokesman saying
it was not clear whether Scott was speaking for the Liberal
Democrats, or giving his personal opinion.


Scottish Labour leader and the current first minister of
Scotland, Jack McConnell, said he "stands ready" to form a
government if the SNP's attempt failed.


The nationalists won a landmark victory in Thursday's elections,
beating Labour into second place, the first time Britain's ruling
party had failed to win most seats in Scotland -- one of its
traditional heartlands -- since 1955.


If no agreement on forming a new Scottish government is struck by
May 30, a new election will have to be held.


If the SNP forms the next Scottish government, it may create a
headache for British finance minister Gordon Brown, if, as
expected, he takes over from Blair as prime minister within a few
months.


Brown, a unionist Scot, could face an awkward cohabitation as he
has vowed not to work with a Scottish leader who wants to end the
300-year-old union with England and Wales.


Salmond has nevertheless stressed his willingness to cooperate
with Brown.


But if scorned, he would be a dangerous enemy for Brown, The
Observer newspaper said.


Previously, tensions between Edinburgh and London "simmered
behind the closed doors of a Labour Party safe house. Now they
will be played out in public," the weekly said.


"Just at the moment when Mr Brown needs to present himself as a
statesman for all of Britain, he could find himself sucked into
an unseemly partisan brawl of scant relevance" to England.


One area of contention is that MPs representing Scottish seats in
the British parliament can vote on affairs that affect England
only, such as health and education, even though the Edinburgh
parliament decides on those matters for Scotland.

