

Tiger Woods fired a 3-under-par 69 here Sunday to hold off his
rivals and win the 6.4 million-dollar Wachovia Championship.


Woods finished at 13-under 275 for his 57th career victory on the
PGA Tour and his third in six starts this year.


Steve Stricker (69) pulled his second shot into the creek at the
brutal par-4 18th but salvaged a bogey to finish second at 277.


Phil Mickelson (70) snuck into a tie for third with South African
Rory Sabbatini (74) at 279 when several other contenders made a
mess of the difficult last hole.


Woods started the day a stroke behind Sabbatini but took command
by picking up four shots in a brilliant three-hole stretch
beginning at the par-5 seventh.


That gave him the cushion to withstand a double-bogey at the
par-3 13th.


"The back nine I struggled a little bit," he admitted.


Making his first start since The Masters, Woods collected just
one birdie in the first six holes. However, once he got his
putter going he was unstopable.


Woods sank a 60-foot monster at the seventh, holed an eight-
footer at the eighth and drained an 18-footer at the ninth.


Woods broke out of the pack, making the turn at 15-under and
leaving Fiji's Vijay Singh and Stricker in his wake.


Woods, 31, collected 1.134 million dollars to move to the top of
the money list and the FedEx Cup points table.


"This week I didn't really have my best stuff, but it was good
enough," he said. "But I made a lot of putts this week, some
crucial par putts from six to eight feet, which you have to
make."


Woods got a little lucky with his eagle at the seventh, where his
drive came within a foot of finding the lake right of the fairwa


But he took advantage of his break to hit a 7-iron to the back of
the green and made his long putt.


"It should have probably been (bogey) six on that hole, because I
lost my tee shot to the right, and I don't know how it didn't go
in the water," he said. "All of a sudden, I had a perfect lie and
I took a chance on that second shot to go for it.


"But I ended up on the top shelf (of the green). I was just
trying to two-putt and it happened to go in."


Woods added birdies at the next two holes to take command at the
turn and kept the lead despite a bogey at the par-5 10th and the
double-bogey at the par-3 13th.


"My goal coming in was to try to get the lead through 15," he
said. "I figured if I parred in I'd probably win, because in
these conditions you figure probably no one is going to play
those last three holes under par."


Playing two groups ahead, Stricker birdied the 15th to briefly
tie for the lead but promptly dropped two shots at the 16th.


"I knew after I birdied 15, if I could just play in at even par,
I'd have a chance," Stricker said. "It's a little bittersweet.
I'm happy I finished second, but I had an opportunity to win."

