

The Indian rupee, which hit a near decade high against the dollar
earlier this year, is expected to extend its rise and pressure
export firms that bill in dollars, Credit Suisse said Monday.


In an advance not foreseen by either economists or companies, the
rupee had risen 8.5 percent against the greenback in the year to
date by Friday, making it the fourth-biggest currency gainer of
2007, the investment bank said in a research note to clients.


"The rupee appreciation is sharp and here to stay," it said. "The
impact is material for many and can no longer be ignored as
cyclical."


The report said it could appreciate "by a further one to two
percent in the following months."


Software and service exporters such as Tata Consultancy, Infosys
and Wipro -- India's three biggest information-technology
companies -- face profit pressure because most of their earnings
are denominated in dollars, the bank said.


Drugmakers like Dr. Reddy's, Cipla and Lupin could also have
profit dented because of weak pricing power on exported products.
Hotels and transportation companies too have adverse exposure,
the bank said.


Net foreign-exchange earnings make up 51 percent of sales at Tata
Consultancy, 56 percent at Infosys and 35 percent at Wipro. They
compose 33 percent of sales at Dr. Reddy's, 31 percent at Cipla
and 20 percent at Lupin, the bank noted.


Commodities, media, construction engineering may be among the
beneficiaries of a stronger rupee, the Credit-Suisse report said.


"In a way, the rupee appreciation has significantly reduced the
defensive appeal" of the information technology and drug
industries, said Credit Suisse.


The rupee ended last week just above the 41 to the dollar level.


The currency's rise briefly propelled India to a trillion dollar
economy in April when it breached the 41 level, its advance
helped by inflows from investors eager to pump money into an
economy expanding nine percent a year.


Foreign direct investment nearly tripled in the past financial
year to 16 billion dollars from 5.5 billion a year earlier.


Until recently, the central bank had sold rupees to make sure the
Indian currency does not rise too quickly.


But the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has eased off from selling
rupees as it seeks to wrestle down inflation in an economy
growing by around nine percent a year.


Letting the rupee rise has made imports less expensive,
cushioning the impact of strong fuel prices for India, which
relies heavily on imported oil which is priced in dollars.


By not selling rupees to buy dollars, the central bank also has
not added to money supply that has been helping fuelling an
inflation rate hovering around six percent, more than the central
bank's medium-term goal of 4.5 percent.

