

Malaysia will build a seven billion dollar pipeline to transport
Middle East oil across the north of its peninsula to East Asian
countries, Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said Monday.


"Yes we have agreed," Abdullah told reporters.


Abdullah, who is also the finance minister, said the project was
one of the government's major initiatives to develop Malaysia's
northern region.


"Anything that happens there is part of that, we take into
account all of this. We have always wanted to do more for that
area and that also will take care of the eastern corridor," he
said.


Abdullah declined to elaborate.


The News Straits Times reported Monday that Trans-Peninsula
Petroleum Sdn Bhd, the company that will construct the
312-kilometre (194-mile) pipeline, said it will invest as much as
seven billion dollars in the ambitious project over eight years.


The pipeline will run from northwestern Kedah state, across Perak
state to northeastern Kelantan state which faces the South China
Sea, which chairman Rahim Kamil Sulaiman said will bypass the
piracy-prone Malacca Strait.


"The initial phase of two million barrels of oil per day is
expected to cost about two billion dollars, and the investment
will increase to 4.5 billion dollars and seven billion dollars
upon completion of the second and third phases of the project,
respectively," Rahim told the newspaper.


Half of the world's oil shipments currently pass through the
960-kilometre strategic Malacca Strait, the busiest seaway in the
world.


Last month, Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said the proposed
project was intended to reduce transport costs and security risks
for tankers on the Malacca Strait.


"Investors will also be invited, among them the key oil producers
of the Middle East, Islamic funds and major consumers in East
Asia," Rahim said.


Rahim said tankers will offload crude oil from the Middle East in
the coastal town of Yan in Kedah.


The oil will then be transported through the pipeline to Bachok
on Kelantan's coast, for distribution to countries in the East
Asian region, he said.


There will be three storage tanks located in Yan, and Jeli and
Bachok in Kelantan, while the initial storage capacity of the
pipeline will be around 60 million barrels of oil, the newspaper
said.


"This will be upgraded later to serve as the regional strategic
reserve of the East Asian countries, especially China, Japan and
South Korea," it said.


Rahim also said that his company was not involved in the proposed
construction of two oil refineries.


Earlier reports said SKS Development Sdn Bhd, owned by tycoon
Syed Mokhtar Al- Bukhary, would build a refinery in Yan and
another in Bachok, with a pipeline linking the two refineries.

