

Australian media Monday blamed a greed-fuelled bluff for the
spectacular failure of a 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US)
private equity bid for national airline Qantas.


"Qantas takeover grounded by greed," The Australian newspaper
said in an editorial, with a front-page analysis headlined "Giant
bluff goes badly wrong, no hedging it."


The Sydney Morning Herald's splash headline read: "Qantas farce:
heads will roll," suggesting Qantas chairwoman Margaret Jackson
-- a strong supporter of the bid -- would face strong pressure to
resign.


The Airline Partners Australia (APA) offer initially collapsed
late on Friday after it failed to garner more than 50 percent of
shareholder acceptances by a 7:00 pm (0900 GMT) deadline.


A revival briefly looked possible after a major American
investor, Heyman Investment Associates, suddenly pushed
acceptances to 50.6 percent, just hours after the deadline had
passed.


But those hopes were dashed on Sunday after the Takeovers Panel
refused an appeal to count the late acceptances, effectively
scuttling the consortium's chances of keeping the deal afloat.


The Australian described the failure as "a complete world-class
debacle."


"This was all about the giant game of bluff played by
international hedge funds for hundreds of millions of dollars in
hard cash," it said.


"American billionaire Samuel Heyman woke up early Friday morning
in the US to several frantic and incredulous phone calls.


"The most furious were from two giant US hedge funds. The funds
were beside themselves that Heyman had managed to scupper the
entire Qantas deal by reneging on a mutual understanding.


"This understanding had been supposed to deliver just enough
stock to get the bid across the line by 5:00 am New York time.
Not delivering on the deal was not in the script."


If APA had gained 50 percent of shareholder acceptances, it would
have triggered a two-week extension of the 5.45 dollar a share
offer to allow the group to reach the minimum 70 percent it
needed to succeed.


The Sydney Morning Herald said Heyman Investment Associates
simply did not believe the bid would fail without its acceptance
and was holding out for a better price for its shares once the 50
percent had been secured.


Australia's Macquarie Bank, which headed the consortium, called
Heyman's chief investment officer Jim Hoffman repeatedly
throughout Friday, the newspaper said.


"It begged him to sell his shares. As the hours wore on, and the
deadline drew closer, the bank became more hysterical ... But
Hoffman had had enough of Macquarie Bank and what he believed was
its arrogant approach to the takeover."


Hoffman believed Macquarie was simply trying to get the 70
percent in one go, the newspaper said.


"This is one of the great f--- ups of the world," one senior
executive involved in the process was quoted as saying.


The private equity group said Monday it may make a fresh offer
for the carrier. Qantas announced shortly afterwards that trading
in its shares would remain suspended until Wednesday pending an
announcement by the airline.

