

Riot police fired tear gas Sunday at stone-throwing anti-Sarkozy
protestors in Paris and other cities across France after the
right-winger's presidential victory.


The Paris clashes occurred on the Place de la Bastille where
about 5,000 supporters of the defeated Socialist candidate
Segolene Royal had gone to await the election results and had
stayed on after Nicolas Sarkozy's triumph.


Up to 300 rioters, some of whom tied scarves around their faces,
made running attacks with bottles and stones on riot police who
responded with baton charges, tear gas and water canon.


"Police everywhere, justice nowhere," shouted some of the
rioters, while others screamed "Sarko-fascist."


Royal had on Friday launched her strongest personal assault on
Sarkozy, saying his election would provoke violence in the high-
immigration suburbs that were the centre of the 2005 riots.


The majority of the Royal supporters gathered Sunday at the
Bastille, some of whom staged sit-ins in front of police lines,
continued their peaceful rally as the riots went on in one part
of the square.


Police had cleared the square of rioters and Royal supporters
alike by midnight.


Earlier a small crowd of protestors, brandishing black and red
anarchist flags, set fire to an effigy of Sarkozy in the square
before tearing it limb from limb and then stamping on it.


The Paris suburbs, where the 2005 riots began before quickly
spreading across France, were mostly quiet on Sunday night after
Sarkozy's victory. But police reported that youths had burned
several dozen vehicles.


An average of 100 vehicles are burned by disgruntled youths in
cities across France every day of the year.


There were anti-Sarkozy demonstrations in cities across France on
Sunday night.


In the Mediterranean port of Marseille, police used tear gas to
disperse around 300 protestors in the city's central port area.


In the northern city of Lille police battled about 200 bottle-
throwing rioters. One rioter was injured and five arrested.


Firefighters in the region said they had to respond to dozens of
incidents of burned cars.


Minor scuffles between police and protestors were also reported
Toulouse in the southwest, Lyon in the southeast, Nancy and Metz
in the east, and Nantes in the west.


Supporters of the president-elect held their own giant
celebratory party in another part of central Paris. Sarkozy beat
Royal by 53 percent of the vote to 47 percent.

