

The AFC Champions League enters a crunch phase on Wednesday with
quarter-final slots at stake as Asia's premier club competition
hots up.


Chinese Super League leaders Shandong Luneng can make certain of
their place in the last eight with victory at home over Adelaide
United while UAE league kingpins Al Wahda can seal their berth by
beating Qatar's Al Rayyan.


J-League stalwarts Kawasaki Frontale can also make the knockouts
with a win over Indonesian minnows Arema Malang in their
penultimate match, but the rest of the groups are finely poised.


Al Karama travel to Qatar to take on Al Sadd after sparking
rapturous celebrations by retaining the Syria League title on
Friday courtesy of a 2-1 victory over Al Jaish.


Al Saad are also on a high after winning the Crown Prince Cup
final 2-1 against AL Gharafa on Saturday.


Karama are two points behind Group C leaders Neftchi of
Uzbekistan and will be desperate to win on Wednesday while hoping
Neftchi lose to Iraq's Al Najaf to take the group to a crucial
final match.


If Neftchi win and Al Karama are beaten the Uzbek side go
through.


In Group D, defending Saudi league champions Al Shabab are neck
and neck on seven points with Iranian heavyweights Sepahan.


They play United Arab Emirates outfit Al Ain while Sepahan take
on Syria's Al Ittihad, who have no chance of qualifying.


With Shanghai Shenhua out of contention in Group E, the fight for
the single qualifying spot is between J-League champions Urawa
Reds (eight points), Sydney FC (seven), and surprise Indonesian
package Persik Kediri (six).


Persik have home advantage against Urawa while Sydney FC, who
must win, will be boosted by an expected sell-out crowd when they
pit their wits against Shenhua who have only pride to play for.


The group matches wind up on May 23 when the competition pauses
for the Asian Cup finals.


Defending champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the quarter-
finals in September. The winners take home 600,000 US dollars and
earn a place in the World Club Championships in Japan in
December.

