

Islamic scholars and businesses must speed up halal certification
on products as technology advances, or risk losing a market worth
over 600 billion dollars, Malaysia's prime minister warned
Monday.


Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said the world's population of 1.6 billion
Muslims are a "captive market" for halal products -- those deemed
permissible under Islam.


But rapid advancements in technology and changes such as the
introduction of genetically modified food are challenging
definitions and standards over what is halal, he said.


"There needs to be a 'musyawarah' or meeting of minds among
Muslim jurists, scientists and business leaders on how to further
develop the global halal industry," Abdullah told business
leaders at the opening of the World Halal Forum here.


"If not, we will run the risk of being left behind and miss out
on the lucrative potential offered by the halal sector," he said
in a keynote speech.


"If Islamic judgements cannot be made quickly and accurately on
the questions that the industry poses, then halal integrity may
become obsolete and eventually falter. We cannot and must not
allow this to happen."


Under the concept of halal -- meaning "permissible" in Arabic --
pork and its by-products, alcohol and animals not slaughtered
according to Koranic procedures are all "haram" or forbidden.


Applying halal standards stretches beyond food to include
products such as cosmetics, which may contain animal-derived
ingredients, and conditions under which products are prepared and
stored.


Abdullah, also the chair of the 57-nation Organisation of the
Islamic Conference, said it was a "duty for Muslims" to develop
the halal sector.


"I would like to call on the leading Muslim nations in particular
to increase their investments into the halal sector," he said.


Mainly Muslim Malaysia is trying to position itself as a global
hub for the halal industry, and organisers of the World Halal
Forum said some 900 participants from 40 countries had registered
for the event.


Key among issues being grappled with is the pressing need for a
standardised form of certification of halal products, which
officials say is hampering development of the industry.


Differing standards across Muslim countries and differences of
religious interpretation are confusing companies, forcing them to
seek halal certification for products in several countries, they
say.

