

Cecilia Sarkozy was conspicuously absent from husband Nicolas'
triumphant presidential campaign, but she was conspicuously
present for his election victory speech to tens of thousands of
cheering supporters.


It was enough to keep the inquiring media at bay: for now.


The 49-year-old former model and PR executive was not with
Sarkozy when he voted in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine on
Sunday. Nor was she with him later when he was driven to party
headquarter to acknowledge his success.


But she was on the stage with him at the Place de la Concorde in
the centre of the French capital when he delivered his speech to
30,000 ecstatic supporters.


Cecilia has shown she is a fiercely independent woman unlikely to
fit easily into the discreet role of first lady. And that is what
gets everyone talking.


"I don't see myself as a first lady. It bores me. I prefer going
round in combat trousers and cowboy boots. I don't fit the
mould," the elegant brunette has said.


Her arrival at the Elysee will certainly send in a blast of
modernity after 12 years of the Chiracs, whose bourgeois
respectability sat well with the Louis XV furniture of the 18th
century palace that houses the president's office.


Like the defeated Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, Cecilia and
her husband are in a relationship that flies in the face of
presidential convention but which in many ways reflects the
changing sociology of France.


Of Jewish-Spanish ancestry, Cecilia's foreign roots match those
of Sarkozy, who is half Hungarian and one quarter Jewish.


Cecilia's absence from Sarkozy's election campaign set tongues
wagging and reawakened memories of 2005 when the couple split for
several months.


As if to quell the gossip, she was photographed voting with
Sarkozy and celebrating his victory in round one two weeks ago,
but was again absent from his side when he voted in the decisive
second round on Sunday.


When Sarkozy entered government in 2002, Cecilia had an office in
the interior ministry, but in early 2005 she disappeared and it
was revealed she had left him for an advertising executive in New
York.


A few months later they were very publicly reconciled.


In his autobiography, Sarkozy said the experience left him
"profoundly shaken. Even today I find it hard to talk about it."


He also tacitly admitted that he had pushed their relationship in
the media, saying he had "overly exposed her."


Cecilia met Nicolas Sarkozy in 1984 when he officiated as mayor
at her first wedding. According to a recent biography, he was
infatuated by her on the spot and pursued her till their marriage
12 years later.


By then he had also been married and divorced. Together they had
four children from their first marriages -- she two girls, he two
boys -- and in 1997 they had a son of their own, Louis.


Despite her protests about not fitting the mould of first lady,
and despite the rumours of marital problems, family friends
insist the couple are still together and that Cecilia intends to
join him at the Elysee -- possibly acting as a communications
adviser.


"They have had their problems but she is hugely important to him.
She protects him," said one friend who asked not to be named.
"She will take on the role of first lady. A bit like Bernadette
Chirac -- but a different Bernadette: one who knows what's going
on."

