

Jose Mourinho took a thinly-veiled swipe at Chelsea's
underachieving stars after his side surrendered the Premiership
title to Manchester United.


Mourinho will end the season without a championship to celebrate
for the first time in five years after Chelsea's 1-1 draw against
Arsenal on Sunday handed United the league.


The Portuguese coach, who had won four titles in a row with Porto
and Chelsea, knew his team had to win at the Emirates Stadium to
keep alive their slender hopes of overhauling United.


Despite fighting back from a goal down with 10 men, they
ultimately fell short. But it was the spirit shown by his under-
strength team that prompted Mourinho to hint that he was unhappy
with the contribution from some of the less motivated members of
his squad.


Although he refused to name the players he feels have let him
down, it would be easy to suspect he was talking about the likes
of Andriy Shevchenko, Michael Ballack and Khalid Boulahrouz.


It has been suggested that senior players at the club have
expressed their dissatisfaction at Ballack's perceived lack of
effort, while Shevchenko has failed to live up to his illustrious
reputation.


Whether Mourinho's caustic comments are the precursor to a clear-
out at the end of the season remains to be seen, but if he does
keep faith with his current squad they have been left in no doubt
about the standards he expects.


"Somebody that wants to succeed in this dressing room has to
watch this game a couple of times to understand why some have
success in this group and some have none," Mourinho said.


"It is the perfect game for players to see and analyse where they
are and understand the principles of this group.


"You can go to any club and analyse player by player their
contribution during the season.


"That's why you have the club player of the season award. Some
players have 20,000 votes, other players have 20 and others have
no votes.


"This is a club for people that want to succeed. The Chelsea
dressing room has special human and professional relations
between the group."


Trailing to Gilberto Silva's 43rd minute penalty and down to 10
men after Boulahrouz's red card, it would have been easy for
Chelsea to wave the white flag.


But Mourinho has instilled a will to win in the majority of his
group that brought them close to four trophies this season. They
showed great courage to draw level through Michael Essien in the
70th minute and they should have kept United waiting for their
title celebrations.


Salomon Kalou had a chance to win it in the last minute but his
shot was brilliantly tipped over by Jens Lehmann and Chelsea's
two-year reign as champions was over.


United will relish the opportunity to flaunt their new status
when they visit Stamford Bridge on Wednesday for a now
meaningless encounter.


The Chelsea boss promised his players would form a guard of
honour for United as they come onto the pitch to recreate the
gesture that they were shown at Old Trafford two years ago.


Mourinho seems set to stay at Chelsea despite his frosty
relationship with owner Roman Abramovich, but he admitted this
had been his most testing season.


"It has been difficult but if I want an easy season I go to a
country where it is easy to be a champion," he said.


"I always said that one day I would lose a championship. I told
my people that the day I don't win it, I don't want to blame
myself, I don't want to blame the players or the people that work
with me.


"Everybody makes mistakes. Even when you win you make mistakes.
There is not the perfect season. I will analyse myself and try to
improve."


Now he faces the difficult task of lifting his players for the FA
Cup final against Manchester United. If they lose at Wembley a
season that promised so much will end with just the League Cup to
add to the trophy cabinet.


While Mourinho contemplates that deflating prospect, his Arsenal
counterpart Arsene Wenger is growing used to finishing empty
handed.


"It is a big frustration because we lost only one game against
the top four teams," Wenger said.


"What I have to get right in the summer is to evaluate what we
need. There are signs that when everybody is fit we have a good
chance.


"If you look at our squad when everybody is back nothing is
lacking. But we have to consider that we are 20 points behind
Manchester United.


"The problem for us is to win at Sheffield United and Manchester
City. But I am confident we have matured and progressed well."

