

US President George W. Bush on Sunday vowed to deliver federal
aid to rebuild a tornado-ravaged town in Kansas where at least 10
people were killed by a wave of giant twisters.


The president's offer of help came as rescue teams scoured the
rubble of schools, homes and shops in a bid to find survivors
after the storm flattened the small southwestern Kansas community
of Greensburg on Friday, killing eight people and injuring more
than 60.


Two other people were dead as a result of storms in other nearby
communities, media reports said.


"I'm confident this community will be rebuilt. To the extent we
can help, we will," the president said, in brief remarks after
attending services at St. John's Episcopal Church.


"They said to me it's hard to describe how bad this community was
hit. I have declared a major disaster for that community and I
hope that helps," Bush said.


"The most important thing now is for our citizens to ask for the
good Lord to comfort those who hurt."


Authorities said Friday's twister damaged or destroyed about 90
percent of the commercial and residential buildings in
Greensburg, a town of some 1,800 residents around 120 miles (200
kilometers) west of Wichita.


The massive tornado made a direct hit on the small prairie town,
ripping homes off their foundations and even damaging below-
ground shelters.


Red Cross volunteers were setting up shelters and providing free
meals, snacks and beverages to those left helpless by the storm.


Bush hailed the "pioneer spirit" that built the Midwest, and
which he said Kansans would draw upon to rebuild, with government
support.


"It's going to take a long time for the community to recover. And
so we'll help in any way we can," the US president said.


The White House said the disaster declaration makes federal
funding available to affected individuals across Kiowa County,
where Greensburg is located, for temporary housing and home
repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and
other relief.


US weather forecasters warned early Sunday that more deadly
twisters were possible across the central plains but those
forecasts were downgraded by evening to a risk of scattered
thunderstorms.


Television images showed the town virtually leveled, with roofs
shredded, branches sheared off trees and school buildings
wrecked. Water, electric and gas utilities were all shut off.


"It sucked the door off of our storm shelter," Greensburg
resident Kevin Hillhouse told Wichita television KAKE.


Emergency workers were trying to restore communications sites
after the storm wiped out both land line and cellular phone
services.


The massive tornado struck at about 10:00 pm Friday (0300 GMT
Saturday) and people in the town said warning sirens went off
about 20 minutes beforehand, giving most a chance to get into
storm cellars.


Tornadoes -- swiftly rotating columns of air extending from a
thunderstorm to the ground -- are among the most violent storms
in the United States with wind speeds of 250 miles (400
kilometers) per hour.

