

The families of three men who inexplicably vanished from a yacht
off the Australian coast three weeks ago ended their search
Monday with no further clues as to what befell the trio.


Their 'ghost yacht' was found drifting near the Great Barrier
Reef on April 18 with its engine and computers running and a
table laid for a meal.


But there was no trace of experienced skipper Derek Batten, 56,
or his companions, brothers Peter and James Tunstead, aged 69 and
63.


Australian authorities called off the search after a week, saying
it was unlikely the men would have survived any longer in the
water.


But the families and friends of the men then carried out their
own search, spending thousands of dollars to hire aircraft and
boats to scour islands in the area, in the belief the men were
still alive, possibly after a kidnapping.


Despite ending their search, they said they had not given up
hope.


"There are so many unanswered questions on a whole range of
things," said Glen Tunstead, nephew of Peter and James Tunstead.


"While there's very high emotion, the family's still got that
slim feeling of hope that something good might come out of this."


Forensic experts who searched the 12-metre catamaran "Kaz II"
after it was towed into port found it had a badly torn sail but
no clues as to the men's fate.


Police said the three were probably washed overboard during a
sudden storm but the family contended that the men would not have
forgotten to don their life jackets or left their fishing lines
out during bad weather.


The additional search had not shed any further light on what had
happened to the men as they made their way from Queensland
towards Perth in Western Australia, Glen Tunstead said.


"I've spoken to specialists in Perth and every time you put a
scenario up and start to work through it, it starts to get way
beyond the character of the people and it gets to the point where
it just doesn't make any sense," Tunstead said.


He said the decision to end the search had been "very emotional
for everybody involved."


"There was a sense of failure. On the other hand it was a sense
of they did everything they possibly could. We didn't achieve the
outcome that we wanted, but look it's still very, very tough for
the family," he added.


The Australian media has likened the case to that of the "Mary
Celeste", the ghost ship found drifting in the Atlantic in 1872
with no sign of its 10 passengers and crew, one of maritime
history's most enduring mysteries.

