

The San Antonio Spurs left the Phoenix Suns bloodied and beaten
Sunday as they seized the lead in their National Basketball
Association Western Conference semi-final series.


Steve Nash suffered a bleeding gash on his nose in a fourth-
quarter collision, and his absence from the floor cost the Suns
as they failed to execute down the stretch of a 111-106 loss to
the Spurs in game one of the best-of-seven second- round series.


Tim Duncan had 33 points and 16 rebounds and Tony Parker added 32
and eight assists for the third-seeded Spurs, who have now won
their last five playoff games in Phoenix dating to 2003.


"We'd rather play in the 80s or 90s (points scored). That's our
type of game," Duncan said. "But we've got a lot of guys that are
shooting the ball well, we're moving the ball well and the points
are going up on the board."


The contrast in styles between the run-and-gun Suns and the
defensive-minded Spurs produced another thrilling contest. There
were eight lead changes and three ties in the fourth quarter.


The key moment came midway through the period, when Nash and
Parker collided headfirst.


"I know we hit our heads really hard," Nash said. "He looked like
he was really hurting so I just wanted to make sure he was OK."


"I thought I was bleeding," Parker said. "I thought my cut was
open because I was the one trying to move forward."


Parker stayed on the floor for a moment and ended up with a
swollen bruise on his forehead. Nash had a gash across the bridge
of his nose that would not stop bleeding despite treatment at
nearly every break in the game.


He required six stitches afterward.


"It was just a big gash apparently and wide and deep and we
couldn't get it to stop bleeding and there wasn't a lot of time
left so we didn't think we had time to go in and stitch it up, so
we tried to manage it," Nash said. "But it was too long and too
deep."


Between changes of the bandage, the two-time MVP kept the Suns in
the game.  He scored seven straight points for Phoenix, including
a 3-pointer that forged a 102-102 tie with 2:23 to play.


Duncan made a tough one-handed shot in the lane and Parker
drilled a jumper before Nash responded with a scoop layup to cut
the deficit to 106-104 with 1:13 remaining.


"He's a trooper by getting back in there and making some plays,"
Duncan said.


The Suns got back the ball with a chance to tie, but coach Mike
D'Antoni substituted for Nash, who again needed to have the
bleeding staunched. Without the superstar point guard on the
floor, Phoenix missed a pair of shots before guard Leandro
Barbosa committed a needless foul with 32 seconds to play.


"We definitely needed him out there," Suns center Amare
Stoudemire said.  "He's one of our leaders."


San Antonio's Manu Ginobili split a pair of free throws before
Amare Stoudemire sank a pair for Phoenix, making it 107-106 with
26 seconds left.


On the next possession, Barbosa fouled Parker before the ball was
inbounded, allowing Michael Finley to go to the line for another
free throw.


Ginobili added another for a 109-106 lead, and Stoudemire missed
a layup as the Suns hopes faded.


"I'd like to think we would have had a shot (with me in there),"
Nash said. "It's pretty bad timing to not be able to go back in
the game but that's life."


"I guess the refs thought there was too much blood or whatever,"
Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said, referring to the NBA rule that
bars players from the floor if they are bleeding. "It would have
been great if he had been allowed to play. ... If we had to take
Tim Duncan out at the end or someone like him, we'd feel the
effects, too."

