

Boxing's self-proclaimed saviors, Floyd Mayweather and Oscar de
la Hoya, made it clear they have better things to do than keep
fighting. But each man expects his US rival to remain in the
ring.


Unbeaten Mayweather improved to 38-0 by winning a split decision
over de la Hoya here Saturday to capture the World Boxing Council
super-welterweight crown, the fifth weight class in which he has
taken a title.


"Me and Oscar together, we made the fight and we saved boxing,"
Mayweather said. "I could have danced around and boxed circles
around him. I wanted to give the fans a hell of a show."


De la Hoya, who fell to 38-5, was aggressive at the start, but
Mayweather's speed and defensive skills allowed him to take
command in the later rounds of a bout grandly billed as "the
night that saved boxing" in de la Hoya's promoting.


"I just wanted to make sure we gave people what they wanted," de
la Hoya said. "I think the people were extremely happy."


The fight, expected to rival all-time boxing revenue records
beyond 100 million dollars, provided the anticipated thrills for
a sport needing stars, but it's hard for departing heroes to
build much excitement for the future.


Mayweather's post-fight retirement declaration and unwillingness
by de la Hoya to commit to future fights undercut the impact of
their blows, even if the remarks were likely just posturing to
boost money for a rematch or other bouts.


"I came in on top. I'm leaving on top," Mayweather said. "All I
wanted to do before I leave the sport is give you guys some
excitement."


Yet Mayweather, 30, hedged his bets when asked about a rematch,
saying at various moments - "I'm not talking about a rematch",
"It's up to (managers)," and "If fans demand a rematch what can I
say? Who knows what the future holds?"


Mayweather said he expects de la Hoya to return to the ring while
de la Hoya declared that Mayweather, "as a champion, he has
responsibility to work hard and retain that title."


De la Hoya, 34, wants time to reflect after only two fights in 2
1/2 years. He made 25 million dollars for the fight but his
Golden Boy Promotions made half the pay-per-view profits and he
is seen more lately in suits than shorts.


"We will see. I'll go back and look at the details but I feel
good," de la Hoya said. "I don't feel like a loser. I pressed the
action. I was very happy with what I did."


Mayweather made 10 million dollars for the fight but with a
record label, a promotion firm and riches already, he dubbed
boxing the least of his concerns.


"I'm getting excited about other things outside of boxing,
promoting other fighters and music and concerts," Mayweather
said. "These years are extremely vital to my children. This is my
last fight."


Trash-talking Mayweather would have had to settle for a draw if a
particular judge had switched and scored the last round against
him, but was at his boastful best anyway.


"I thought I was going to beat him by a much bigger margin. Oscar
won four or five out of the 12 rounds. All the shots Oscar was
landing were on the arms and shoulders. His punching power, it's
not what I thought," he said.


"I was giving him good shots. I was saying, 'How could he beat
all those guys if he doesn't move his head?' Oscar was trying to
steal rounds with late punches but you can't steal rounds getting
punched in the face."


Floyd Mayweather Snr, the winner's estranged father who trained
de la Hoya for eight fights, was dumped by the "Golden Boy" for
the fight after seeking two million dollars for it. But
Mayweather Snr said he thought de la Hoya won.


"My son had good defense and not a lot of punches," the elder
Mayweather said. "I thought Oscar threw a lot of punches and did
enough to win."


The younger Mayweather said those words were not shocking for a
man who trains many Golden Boy-backed fighters and could guide de
la Hoya once more.


"I love my father. He's a great guy. Anything he said, I forgive
him," said Mayweather.


"My dad is going to return to Oscar. He is still training
fighters over there. Of course he is going to speak nicely of de
la Hoya. He knows Oscar is going to fight again. That's his
future money."


What's uncertain is where is boxing's future money is located.

