

Analysts say Pope Benedict XVI will use his trip to Brazil to
promote Christ's divinity over the politicised Jesus embraced by
Latin America's liberation theologists.


Benedict is said to be convinced that the struggle for influence
between the Roman Catholic Church and the rising tide of
evangelical sects in Latin America revolves around the image of
Christianity's central figure, the subject of his just published
book "Jesus of Nazareth."


The pope, who leaves Wednesday for a five-day trip to Brazil,
himself is said to have selected the theme of a conference of
Latin American bishops that he is to open on Sunday: "Disciples
and Missionaries of Jesus Christ, So That Our Peoples Find Life
in Him."


Pentecostal sects, which revolve around a direct relationship
with Jesus and the belief that this spiritual experience offers
healing and personal salvation, have proliferated because of the
Roman Catholic Church's failure to spread its own spiritual
message, according to Benedict.


The 80-year-old pontiff argues that the pentecostal trend has
little to do with liberation theology, the movement with Marxist
overtones that swept the Latin American region, especially
Brazil, in the 1970s.


As Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, when he headed the Vatican's
doctrinal enforcement body, the pope spearheaded opposition to
liberation theology, notably condemning Brazilian proponent
Leonardo Boff in 1985.


Liberation theology focuses on Christ as the liberator of the
oppressed and emphasises the Christian mission of bringing
justice to the poor and oppressed, particularly through political
activism.


In his new book, the pope calls on Catholics to rediscover the
spiritual dimension of the Christian message over earthly
pursuits.


"Where God is considered a secondary dimension that you can
temporarily or lastingly put aside in the name of more important
things, these supposedly more important things fail," he wrote,
adding: "The negative experience of Marxism is not alone in
demonstrating this to us."


A leading exponent of liberation theology, which is popular
across Latin America, received a Vatican warning over his
writings in March saying they contained "notable discrepancies
with the faith of the Church."


Spanish Jesuit Jon Sobrino, who lives in El Salvador, and other
liberation theologists are accused of placing too great an
emphasis on the human rather than divine nature of Jesus Christ.


"Jesus of Nazareth," published last month, is seen as Benedict's
answer to popular publications such as Dan Brown's best-selling
"The Da Vinci Code."


The book, which seeks to reconcile the historical figure of
Christ with that of the Gospels, will soon be available in Latin
America, which is home to nearly half of the world's 1.1 billion
Catholics.

