

A private equity group that saw its 11.1 billion dollar (9.2
billion US) takeover bid for Qantas Airways implode in chaos at
the weekend said Monday it may make a fresh offer for the
carrier.


Airline Partners Australia (APA) made the announcement in a
statement to the Australian Stock Exchange minutes after the
country's takeover regulator rejected a final appeal against its
decision to declare the original bid dead.


"Discussions with regulators since the Friday deadline under
APA's offer have not resulted in APA being able to include a late
acceptance which would have resulted in a two-week extension of
APA's offer," APA said.


"In view of the fact that a majority of Qantas shareholders
lodged acceptances for APA's offer, APA is exploring a number of
alternatives including the possibility of making a renewed offer
for Qantas at 5.45 dollars per share," it added.


The latest development came after APA's six-month-old bid for the
iconic Australian carrier flew into a violent storm that quickly
reduced the much- touted deal to what media and analysts
described as a chaotic "debacle".


The bid initially collapsed late Friday after it failed to garner
the requisite 50 percent shareholder support by a 7:00 pm (0900
GMT) deadline, prompting the private equity group to publicly
concede defeat.


But a few hours later, APA declared that the deal was not dead as
a major American investment fund had decided shortly after the
deadline had passed to partially back the deal, pushing
acceptances of the deal to 50.6 percent.


Those hopes were however dashed Sunday when the Takeovers Panel
refused to count the late acceptances. APA immediately appealed
the rejection, but the panel early Monday ruled that the decision
would stand.


"The panel met urgently late (Sunday) in response to an
application for the review of the initial panel's decision not to
commence proceedings," the Takeover Panel said in a statement.


"The review panel has also declined to commence proceedings," it
said, adding that the reasons for the final ruling would be
published as soon as possible.


Investors and analysts meanwhile braced for stock market
turbulence as the stock exchange announced that Qantas shares
were temporarily suspended but would resume trading at 11:00 am
(0100 GMT).

