

Israel on Monday welcomed the victory of Nicolas Sarkozy in
France's presidential poll, hailing him as a friend of the Jewish
state.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert congratulated "the French
people on the election of Nicolas Sarkozy to the French
presidency."


"I am convinced that the relations between Israel and France will
develop and deepen during his mandate ... and that our
cooperation will be fruitful and we will be able to launch a
policy of peace in our region," Olmert said in a statement.


Right-wing opposition chief Benjamin Netanyahu said that "with
Sarkozy, France's politics will be much more balanced."


"He is sensitive to Israel's security needs and can make himself
heard in Arab countries," Netanyahu, a former premier who today
is the leader of the main right-wing opposition party Likud, told
army radio.


"He is a man who sees the interests of France via a different
angle and his election is a gift for Israel and Franco-Israeli
relations," he said, adding that Sarkozy, who has a Jewish
grandparent, was "a friend of Israel."


The Israeli press was equally enthusiastic.


"A new era in relations with France," said a front-page headline
in the mass- selling Yediot Aharonot.


"The Jewish origins of the next Catholic French president have
provoked large hopes in Jerusalem," it said.


The rival tabloid Maariv hailed "the French revolution thanks to
which a clear friend of Israel has been elevated to the Elysee
for the first time in the history of the Fifth Republic."


The paper underlined that Sarkozy favoured a creation of a
Palestinian state, has reproached the Palestinian Authority for
not preventing violence against Israel and has opposed the
controversial nuclear programme of Israel's arch-foe Iran.


"Sarkozy will be an honest mediator between Israel and the Arab
world and that ... in itself is already a small French
revolution," it said, adding that, "Israeli politicians estimate
that for the most part Mr. Sarkozy up to now has adoped largely
amicable positions toward Israel."

