

A botched bid to take over Australia's Qantas Airways may not
have failed after all, the airline said Monday, as the stop-start
deal took a confusing new twist.


Hours after the Takeover Panel refused a final appeal by a
private equity group to revive its 11.1-billion-dollar (9.2
billion US) offer, the panel asked for urgent clarification from
APA of a claim that the bid may still be alive.


The deal initially collapsed Friday when the prospective buyer,
Airline Partners Australia (APA), failed to get the 50 percent
shareholder support it needed before Friday's 7:00 pm (0900 GMT)
deadline.


It conceded failure but soon revised its position, saying it
would seek the Takeover Panel's consent to include late backing
from an American investment fund that would have pushed
acceptances to 50.6 percent.


The panel however on Sunday refused to recognise the late entry,
saying the deadline was final. On Monday, it also refused an
appeal of its decision by APA, apparently snuffing out any hope
of reviving the ill-fated takeover.


But by Monday afternoon, Qantas said that securities regulators
had requested a halt in trading of the carrier's shares due to
the possibility that the deal may still be in play.


That was triggered by a claim by APA that a clause in its offer
to acquire Qantas could mean that the deal may in fact have
garnered the 50 percent support it needed ahead of Friday's
deadline.


"The Panel noted APA's submissions that as a result of clause 7.3
(f)(i) of the APA offer, APA may have met the 50 percent
threshhold prior to the scheduled close of the APA offer and thus
the APA offer may have been extended," the Takeovers Panel said
in a statement.


"APA should clarify whether this is the situation or not as soon
as possible," it said.


Qantas said the securities watchdog had requested a halt in
trading of its shares to "query the suggestion" made in the
Takeovers Panel statement.


But Shaw Stockbroking aviation analyst Brent Mitchell said the
trading halt was more an opportunity to clear up outstanding
details so that the bid could be declared dead officially.

