

Spider-Man swooped to the top of the North American box office on
Sunday with the superhero's latest film adventure netting a
record-smashing 148 million dollars on its opening weekend.


Figures released by box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations showed
the web- spinning protagonist blasting the blockbuster season off
to a super-high earning start.


It dwarfed the previous record, set last year by Disney's
"Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," which earned 135.6
million in its first three days, the movie industry newspaper
Variety reported.


The single-day takings for "Spider-Man 3" on Friday came to 59
million, beating the "Pirates" record of 55.8 million in July
2006, Variety said.


Among the other top grossing movies in North America this
weekend, "Spider-Man 3" eclipsed the 5.7 million earned by by
teen thriller "Disturbia" which it knocked into second place
after three weeks at the top.


The latest instalment in the fantasy action series sees Tobey
Maguire as the web-shooting hero battling his arch-foe the Green
Goblin while juggling a rival love interest to his high school
sweetheart Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst).


Clad in a new-look black spider suit -- the result of tainting by
a malignant glob of protoplasm from outer space -- he finds
himself confronted by the darker side of his personality as he
faces high-octane combat with new villains, Venom and Sandman.


American critics gave the sequel directed by Sam Raimi lukewarm
reviews, with the Chicago Sun-Times saying the movie had too many
"sluggish scenes" and the Los Angeles Times lamenting its
"ungainly" pace.


But the film won big audiences in the United States and abroad.


"Spider-Man 3" shattered records in comic book-loving France
where it was released on May 1, drawing more than 800,000 viewers
in a single day, according to figures from the industry tracker
CBO Box-Office.


In Britain, the film raked in 11.45 million pounds (22.8 million
dollars) over its debut weekend, the Guardian newspaper reported.
That showing put it in third place behind "Harry Potter and the
Goblet of Fire" and "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest"
in all-time rankings.


The film opened in Japan and other major Asian markets on May 1,
three days before it debuted in the United States.


The previous two "Spider-Man" films have earned more than 1.6
billion dollars worldwide since the first was released in 2002,
making it one of the most successful movie franchises of all
time.


At the North America box office, "Fracture," a legal police drama
starring Anthony Hopkins and Ryan Gosling, rose to third place
with takings of 3.5 million dollars, followed by another teen
thriller, "The Invisible," with 3.1 million.


"Next," the story of a Las Vegas magician who can glimpse a few
minutes into the future starring Nicolas Cage and Julianne Moore,
came in fifth with 2.7 million.


The only other new release to rank this weekend, "Lucky You,"
with Eric Bana as an ace poker player competing in Las Vegas,
took 2.5 million dollars, placing sixth.


May will also see new films from two of the most profitable film
franchises in history, "Shrek" and "Pirates of the Caribbean."
The three film series have grossed over four billion dollars
between them since 2001.

