

The Philippines on Monday rejected appeals to directly negotiate
with Nigerian gunmen holding hostage eight of its nationals and
three South Koreans.


Brushing off calls by relatives of some of the hostages for
direct talks, Foreign Undersecretary Esteban Conejos said Manila
would rely on the Nigerian government to bring an end to the
crisis.


A day earlier, one of the Filipino hostages appealed for help in
a recorded radio message, saying they were being beaten and
starved by their captors in a Nigerian jungle.


The recorded message could be "an attempt to sow panic among us
especially to raise the anxiety level of the families here,"
Conejos said.


In the recording aired by DZBB radio, one of the Filipino
hostages said they feared for their lives and urged the
government to contact the kidnappers because "every single hour
is important."


But in the same recording, a heavily accented voice could be
heard in the background telling the hostage what to say.


Conejos said Nigerian government negotiators have contacted the
gunmen who seized the eight Filipino workers and three South
Korean executives last week from a Daewoo Engineering and
Construction site in the oil-rich African nation's southern delta
region.


"We have agreed -- the South Korean government, Daewoo and the
Philippine government -- that we will not be dragged into a
negotiation, separate or tripartite with the kidnappers," Conejos
told reporters.


"We have been assured by the Nigerian government that all of our
eight OFWs (overseas Filipino workers) are sound and in good
condition," Conejos said.


He stressed that only the Nigerian government was authorised to
enter into talks with the kidnappers, whose identities and
demands remained unknown.


Conejos said he met with the families of the hostages Monday
morning to brief them on the talks, and appealed on the press to
avoid being used by the kidnappers in advancing their interests.


Philippine diplomats were also working closely with South Korean
officials on the ground in Nigeria.


Meanwhile, 26 of 45 Filipinos who also worked in the Daewoo
compound were flown home to Manila on Monday while the rest were
scheduled to return Tuesday, Conejos said.


Some 4,500 Filipinos work in Nigeria, and Conejos said Manila
would also repatriate those who felt in danger, although he said
the security problem was focused on gas and oil areas.


The Philippines imposed a ban on travel to Nigeria after 26
Filipinos were abducted by gunmen in January. They were all freed
unharmed after being held for nearly a month.


About eight million Filipinos, or almost 10 percent of the
population, work abroad and their remittances are a major pillar
of the country's economy.

