

Riot police fired tear gas and water canon Sunday at stone-
throwing protestors gathered in central Paris to demonstrate
against the presidential election victory of right-winger Nicolas
Sarkozy.


The clashes took place on the Place de la Bastille where about
5,000 supporters of the defeated Socialist candidate Segolene
Royal had gone to await the election results.


Up to 300 rioters, some of whom tied scarves around their faces,
made running attacks with bottles and stones on riot police who
responded with baton charges.


"Police everywhere, justice nowhere," shouted some of the
rioters, while others screamed "Sarko-fascist."


The majority of the Royal supporters, some of whom staged sit-ins
in front of police lines, continued their peaceful rally as the
riots went on in one part of the square.


Police cleared the square of rioters and Royal supporters alike
by midnight.


Earlier a small crowd of protestors, brandishing black and red
anarchist flags, set fire to an effigy of Sarkozy in the square
before tearing it limb from limb and then stamping on it.


Royal had on Friday launched her strongest personal assault on
Sarkozy, saying his election would provoke violence in the high-
immigration suburbs that were the centre of the 2005 riots.


The Paris suburbs, where the riots began before quickly spreading
across France, were mostly quiet on Sunday night after Sarkozy's
victory. But police reported that youths had burned several dozen
vehicles.


An average of 100 vehicles are burned in cities across France
every day of the year.


There were anti-Sarkozy demonstrations in cities across France on
Sunday night, with minor scuffles between police and protestors
reported in Lille in the north, Toulouse in the southwest, Lyon
in the southeast and Nancy and Metz in the east.


In the Mediterranean port of Marseille, police dispersed around
300 protestors with tear gas.


Supporters of the president-elect held their own giant
celebratory party in another part of central Paris. Sarkozy beat
Royal by 53 percent of the vote to 47 percent.

