

Former Bangladesh prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed was to
return home Monday after almost two months abroad, during which
she faced a bid by the military- backed government to force her
into exile.


Hasina was due to arrive in the capital Dhaka at 4:20 pm (1120
GMT) under tight security.


The government, installed after a state of emergency was
declared, has banned political activity, but members of Hasina's
party have applied for permission to meet her at the airport.


"We have applied to the government to allow 100 of our leading
figures at the airport," said Abdul Jalil, the general secretary
of Hasina's Awami League.


"We have asked our party activists not to mass at the airport
because all sorts of gatherings are banned during the emergency,"
he said.


However, Jahangir Kabir Nanak, the youth wing president of the
Awami League, said that thousands of supporters could gather.


"I don't think they will listen to our advice," he said Saturday.


Hasina originally left to visit her family in the United States
on March 15 and last month was refused permission to board a
flight from Britain to Bangladesh, in an attempt by the
government to force her into exile.


In an interview Sunday, Hasina said the government had lied to
her.


"The biggest betrayal was that they would not let me return to
the country," Hasina said in an interview with the Bangladeshi
New Age newspaper at her London residence.


The emergency government lifted the ban on Hasina's return last
Wednesday and also eased pressure on the most recent prime
minister, Khaleda Zia.


Zia earlier had reportedly agreed to go into exile in Saudi
Arabia in return for leniency for her two sons, who face
corruption allegations.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January, when the president declared a state of emergency and
cancelled elections planned for January 22.


The move came after massive protests by the Awami League over
alleged corruption of the voting system.


Hasina, prime minister between 1996 and 2001, and Zia of the
Bangladesh National Party are fierce rivals who have traded the
top post since 1991.


Critics say they paralysed Bangladesh's democracy and invited
corruption.


"These two women are largely responsible (for the emergency). If
they were not so obstinate and had been able to settle their
differences we would not be in this situation," said leftist
intellectual and commentator Badruddin Omar.


The new government has launched a nationwide crackdown on graft,
arresting more than 50 top politicians from the two main parties.
It said new polls would be held no earlier than late 2008 as
voting reform was needed.


Hasina was charged with murder and extortion last month, but
police have suspended a warrant for her arrest pending further
investigations of four deaths in political unrest last year.


Police said Hasina could still be arrested over an extortion case
filed by the Bangladeshi head of a Malaysian company.

