

Rugby minnows Japan are hoping to learn some lessons from a star-
studded Classic All Blacks team this week as they try to find
their own style ahead of the World Cup later this year.


Japan, under the guidance of the All Blacks' legendary coach John
Kirwan, have set up two matches against the Classic All Blacks on
May 9 in Kobe and May 12 in Tokyo.


The Japanese got off to a flying start on their journey to the
World Cup in France by whitewashing South Korea 82-0 and Hong
Kong 73-3 last month -- their first matches since Kirwan signed
on in January.


"It's a really exciting time for me as the Japanese coach to have
such high calibre players coming to Japan," said the 42-year-old
Kirwan, who helped New Zealand win the inaugural World Cup in
1987 as a fleet-footed wing.


"The players are very excited about playing against these great
players. I think it will be a special moment. I promise you that
the Japanese team will be doing their best to win these games."


Kirwan said he was going to ask stand-off Carlos Spencer and
winger Jonah Lomu for their impressions of the Japanese team's
performance after the two games in order to lead Japan in a new
direction.


"It's exciting to get Carlos Spencer. He's like a magician with
the rugby ball, so Japanese people enjoy seeing him," said
Kirwan.


"I think what we are trying to achieve from a serious point of
view is we are trying to create a Japanese style of game.


"We don't want to play like All Blacks, we don't want to play
like Australia, we don't play like France. We want to be
Japanese," he added.


Lomu, the youngest All Blacks player to represent New Zealand at
19 in 1994, scored a World Cup record of eight tries in 1999,
including those in five straight games.


Other big names like Justin Marshall, Mark Robinson, Spencer,
Andrew Mehrtens and Scott McLeod will play for the Classic All
Blacks team because of Kirwan.


"It's a great privilege to be here, being part of the Classic All
Blacks. I'll be looking forward to playing against the Japanese
side who is preparing for the World Cup this year," said Lomu.


"I hope that the whole of Japan get behind the Japanese side.
They have a great coach who is trying to change things and take
it into a new direction.


Japan have set themselves a daunting task of two wins in France,
although they have won just one of their 16 matches in the last
five World Cups.


Japan made rugby history in 1995 when they were thrashed by New
Zealand 145-17 -- the largest-ever losing margin in a World Cup.
Their mark was broken in 2003 when Australia demolished Namibia
142-0.

