

Pakistan's Supreme Court on Monday began hearing a petition from
the country's sacked top judge who is locked in a legal battle
with military ruler Pervez Musharraf.


Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry is challenging his March
9 ousting over misconduct allegations, including the charge that
he used his position to secure a top police job for his son,
which he denies.


Musharraf's decision to sack the judge sparked mass
demonstrations across the country.


Chaudhry has taken the case to the Supreme Court, insisting that
the Supreme Judicial Council, a panel of five judges
investigating the misconduct charges, is not competent to try
him, his counsel Aitzaz Ahsan said.


Opposition parties and lawyers have staged anti-Musharraf rallies
on each of Chaudhry's eight appearances before the council in the
past two months.


In a 132-point petition the chief justice has challenged the
composition of the judicial council, the decision to send him on
forced leave, and the misconduct charges, Ahsan said.


The Supreme Court bench met amid tight security although no
protest was planned Monday.


The appeal comes in the wake of a judicial crisis that poses one
of the most serious threats to Musharraf's eight-year rule.


A massive rally was held in the eastern city of Lahore on Sunday
where Chaudhry was cheered by tens of thousands of supporters.


"The era of dictatorship is over," he declared amid chants of "Go
Musharraf, go," with the judge proclaiming that his struggle was
to protect the supremacy of the constitution and the rule of law.


Opponents accuse Musharraf of sacking Chaudhry illegally in an
attempt to weaken the judiciary to make it easier for him to
remain in charge of the army after 2007, when he should give up
the position, under the constitution.


Musharraf is also expected to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or in early 2008 -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.


The supreme judicial council is due to resume its proceedings on
Wednesday.

