

South Korea is considering using its export-import bank to help
North Korea recover funds that were frozen abroad in a bid to
unblock a nuclear disarmament deal, a report said Monday.


Chosun Ilbo newspaper said the government had discussed using the
state-run Export-Import Bank of Korea to broker the transfer of
25 million dollars in North Korean funds from Macau's Banco Delta
Asia (BDA).


The presidential office did not deny the report, saying in a
statement it has been discussing ways to break the impasse and
progress was being made.


Nuclear-armed North Korea has refused to start shutting down its
atomic programme until it recovers the funds, which had been
frozen since 2005 after the US alleged they were the proceeds of
money-laundering and counterfeiting.


A six-nation disarmament deal reached in February set a deadline
of April 14 for the shutdown of the Yongbyon reactor, but this
slipped by due to the banking dispute.


The United States says the funds were unfrozen in March but
foreign banks are unwilling to handle cash seen as tainted.


The North apparently wants to make a transfer rather than a
withdrawal to prove it has regained access to the international
banking system.


Chosun Ilbo said the South Korean presidential staff met on
Thursday to discuss the possibility of getting the country's
export-import bank to do the job.


"The US has told North Korea to take the unfrozen BDA funds back,
while Pyongyang insists that it should not withdraw the money in
cash but transfer it to other bank accounts. That's why our
government comes out to help," it quoted a source as saying.


"I understand that the US, agreeing with our government, will
convey its position to the Export-Import Bank of Korea that it
would not raise a problem with its cooperation in transferring
the BDA funds."


An overseas branch of the export-import bank could receive the
funds and transfer them to a third country, Chosun said.


The presidential office said: "We have been discussing how we can
help resolve the technical issues. But consultations between the
parties concerned to the BDA issue are now making progress and we
hope this issue can be resolved."


A spokesman for the Export-Import Bank of Korea told AFP he was
unaware of any government moves on the BDA issue.


There were signs over the weekend that a solution could be
imminent.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso was Saturday quoted as saying
that six-nation talks could resume as early as this week if the
BDA issue were resolved.


The US chief nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill said Friday he
was hopeful the funds would be freed up soon.

