

New-look India flew into Bangladesh on Monday hoping to revive
the team's shattered cricketing fortunes and avenge the
disastrous defeat that sent them tumbling out of the World Cup.


No other result has caused such upheaval in Indian cricket as
Bangladesh's stunning five-wicket World Cup win that knocked
Rahul Dravid's men out in the first round in March.


Coach Greg Chappell resigned, proven performers were dropped and
the administrators acted tough by slashing salaries, a move that
threatens to boil over after the three-week tour ends.


The players last week refused to sign new performance-linked
contracts that offered them a flat annual retainer of 500,000
rupees (about 12,000 dollars) instead of the previous graded
scales ranging from 45,000-110,000 dollars.


The proposed retainer was besides the match fees, and the
contracts offered bonuses for Test and one-day victories at home
and abroad.


India's cricket chiefs agreed to review the contracts after the
tour but the players are unhappy that they were being penalised
for the Bangladesh World Cup loss.


If the players were distracted by the contracts issue, they did
not show it as they made the short 35-minute flight from Kolkata
to the Bangladeshi capital on Monday morning.


Former captain-turned-commentator Ravi Shastri, the interim coach
for the tour as officials search for Chappell's long-term
replacement, said the team were focused on the job at hand.


"This is a challenging tour," Shastri told AFP. "The players were
more disappointed than anyone else losing in the World Cup and
are determined to prove a point now.


"The World Cup is history. I have told the boys to move on and,
make no mistake, they are ready for the challenge."


The selectors dropped senior batsmen Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav
Ganguly for the three one-day internationals that start on
Thursday, although both were included for the two Test matches to
follow.


Bowlers Harbhajan Singh, Ajit Agarkar and Irfan Pathan were the
other casualties from the World Cup debacle, while veteran
spinner Anil Kumble quit one-day cricket to concentrate on Tests.


Uncapped 21-year-old Bengal batsman Manoj Tewary was selected for
the one- dayers, while left-arm spinner Rajesh Pawar, 27, was
added to the Test squad.


Leg-spinner Piyush Chawla, left-arm seamer Rudra Pratap Singh,
off-spinner Ramesh Powar and batsmen Gautam Gambhir and Dinesh
Mongia also got the nod for the shorter version.


Aggressive opener Virender Sehwag is retained for the one-dayers
despite scoring just 270 runs in his last 10 matches, but has
been axed from the Test squad.


Captain Dravid, who was hit on the nose by a rising ball during a
training camp in Kolkata last week, is fit to play from the start
of the tour, Shastri said.


"Rahul is a tough cookie and will be ready to take guard from the
first ball," said Shastri. "Injuries happen. You must know we are
not playing marbles, we are playing cricket."


The first two one-dayers will be played in Dhaka on May 10 and 12
followed by the third in the port city of Chittagong on May 15.


The Test matches will be held in Chittagong (May 18-22) and Dhaka
(May 25-29).

