

After decades of sectarian violence and terrorism, Northern
Ireland will inaugurate a historic power-sharing government on
Tuesday that it hopes will finally bring peace and stability.


The 108-seat Northern Ireland Assembly, where rival Protestants
and Catholics will share power, is to be revived after four-
and-a-half years during which the peace process stalled.


Firebrand Protestant preacher Ian Paisley, the leader of the
Democratic Unionists (DUP), is to become the province's first
minister, while convicted terrorist Martin McGuinness of the
opposing Catholic Sinn Fein party will be his deputy -- a
prospect which would have been unthinkable even five years ago.


McGuinness on Sunday insisted that the coalition of the DUP and
Sinn Fein would succeed, saying that governing with the DUP would
show that self-rule was a more favourable alternative to being
controlled by London.


"We are determined that this latest political initiative will not
fail. We want to build a new relationship with unionists on this
island," he said.


"We want to demonstrate to them the benefits of sitting down and
resolving problems ourselves and overcoming challenges without
the need or interference of British ministers with no mandate in
Ireland."


That the two sides have been able to come together in government
is an extraordinary triumph after years of painstaking progress
-- one that outgoing British Prime Minister Tony Blair will be
keen to claim as his own.


Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern were to be present
at Tuesday's ceremony inaugurating the new administration at
Stormont, with Blair expected to announce his resignation plans
later in the week, hoping to bow out on a high.


Blair will hope that lasting peace in Northern Ireland will
become the cornerstone of his legacy, rather than the unpopular
war in Iraq. Meanwhile Ahern -- who faces a tough May 24 general
election -- could also do with a dose of reflected glory.


The devolved Belfast assembly was created by the April 1998 Good
Friday peace accord which largely ended 30 bloody years of "the
Troubles" between the two communities.


But it was suspended in 2002 when cross-community trust broke
down due to allegations of a spy ring at Stormont and power was
returned to London.


In an effort to spur the province's leaders to make progress, he
issued an ultimatum in November: sort it out among yourselves by
March 26 or see the province run from London indefinitely.


Elections were called on March 7, in which the hardliners in both
communities were emboldened.


The DUP, a conservative Protestant party which strongly favours
Northern Ireland remaining a part of the United Kingdom, topped
the polls.


Their foes Sinn Fein came second. The Catholic socialists of
Gerry Adams and his number two McGuinness favour integration into
the Republic of Ireland, and are the political wing of the Irish
Republican Army (IRA).


The DUP was awarded four ministries, Sinn Fein three, the Ulster
Unionists (UUP -- moderate Protestant conservatives) two, and the
Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP -- Catholic, moderate)
one.


The IRA renounced violence and dismantled its arsenal in 2005,
and Sinn Fein recognised the Northern Irish police and justice
system in January -- a painful and historic step which proved
just about enough to convince the DUP that they were fit for
government.


Both communities were keen to get power back from London.


But Paisley, dubbed "Doctor No" for his decades of intransigence,
took until to the March 26 deadline to back power-sharing, and
only then on the condition that it be implemented in several
weeks' time, and with an improved financial package to kickstart
the province's long-suffering economy, hence the wait until
Tuesday.


Indeed, Paisley, 81, had refused to speak to Adams before their
crunch deadline day meeting.


More than 3,000 people were killed over the three miserable
decades of "The Troubles," many at the hands of the IRA.


But all sides hope the restoration of power-sharing Tuesday will
allow Northern Ireland to start afresh in a new era.

