

Right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, who had sought a mandate for
radical reform, emphatically won France's presidential election
on Sunday, but promised to heal the wounds of the bitterly fought
campaign.


"I will not betray you, I will not lie to you, I will not
disappoint you," Sarkozy told tens of thousands of supporters
packed into a Paris square as news spread of his triumph over the
Socialist Segolene Royal.


But riot police also fought hundreds of anti-Sarkozy rioters in
Paris and others cities with tear gas and water cannon.


Sarkozy won the battle to be France's new generation leader in
place of President Jacques Chirac with 53 percent of the vote
against 47 percent for Royal, according to official results. The
estimated turnout of 85 percent was the highest in three decades.


Amid wild celebrations in the capital, Sarkozy, 52, who has
fought to soften his tough-talking image, said he would be the
president of the whole nation.


"My thoughts go out to all those French people who did not vote
for me," he said in a victory speech at the party headquarters of
his Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


"I want to say to them that -- above and beyond the political
fight, above and beyond differences of opinion -- for me there is
only one France. I will be president of all the French. I will
speak for all of them," he said.


Sarkozy gave the same unifying message to more than 30,000
followers in the Place de la Concorde where he promised to "turn
a new page" in French history.


"I recognise the immense responsibilities that weigh on my
shoulders," he declared. "I want to say to everyone: I will not
betray you, I will not lie to you, I will not disappoint you."


At the Socialist Party headquarters, Royal supporters, many in
tears, gloomily digested a third consecutive presidential defeat
after 1995 and 2002.


"I gave it all I had and will continue to be with you and close
to you," Royal said. But many experts now expect bitter
recriminations within the left wing party over its new
humiliation.


World leaders were quick to acknowledge Sarkozy as the new French
leader.


US President George W. Bush telephoned to congratulate him on his
victory within an hour of polls closing, said a White House
spokesman.


Some hope for a new era in US-France relations after the
frostiness caused by Chirac's opposition to the Iraq war.


Sarkozy said the United States can count on friendship from
France but urged Washington to show leadership in the struggle
against global warming and that it would be a priority for his
government.


Sarkozy said "a great nation like the United States has the duty
to not create obstacles in the struggle against global warming."


Chirac, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and a host of European
leaders also telephoned Sarkozy. German Chancellor Angela Merkel
said she was convinced Sarkozy would maintain the French-German
axis at the heart of the European Union.


Thousands of police reinforcements were deployed around the
capital to head off the risk of unrest by youths from high-
immigrant suburbs where there were riots in 2005.


Riot police fired tear gas and water canon at up to 300 stone-
throwing protestors in the Place de la Bastille in central Paris,
where about 5,000 Royal supporters had gathered.


"Police everywhere, justice nowhere," shouted some rioters, while
others screamed "Sarko-fascist."


Youths also burned several dozen vehicles in Paris suburbs where
troubles erupted two years ago and disturbances were reported in
the provincial cities of Lille, Toulouse, Lyon, Nancy and Metz.
In Marseille, police dispersed around 300 protestors with tear
gas.


On the last day of the campaign Royal had warned that a Sarkozy
victory would trigger "violence and brutality" across the
country.


Sarkozy will take over from Chirac on May 16, and has promised to
act quickly to enact key items of his manifesto.


His campaign was based on the theme of "la rupture" -- a clean
break from past policies which he blamed for creating France's
runaway debt, high unemployment and festering discontent in the
high-immigration suburbs.


After legislative elections in June -- in which he will seek a
clear majority for the UMP and its allies -- he plans a special
National Assembly session to set off his reform drive.


These include the abolition of tax on overtime, big cuts in
inheritance tax, a law guaranteeing minimum service in transport
strikes, and rules to oblige the unemployed to take up offered
work.


On the social front he has pledged minimum jail terms for serial
offenders and tougher rules to make it harder for immigrants to
bring extended families to France.


His right-wing programme was in sharp contrast to Royal's promise
to extend state protection, create 500,000 jobs, and increase the
minimum wage.

