

The bomb blast in Bangkok which injured one man was probably
designed to destabilise Thailand ahead of year-end elections, the
country's deputy foreign minister said Monday.


Sawanit Kongsiri said the government was awaiting results from
police investigations, but said Saturday's attack did not bear
the hallmarks of Muslim militants from insurgency-wracked
southern Thailand.


"We doubt it," Sawanit said, when asked if the bombing was linked
to southern Thai unrest.


"We've had it before, isolated bombing incidents, placed in areas
which will cause a little bit of panic but no deaths, to raise
political tensions," he told reporters on the sidelines of a
conference here.


The small blast injured a man and damaged a telephone booth near
the former party headquarters of deposed prime minister Thaksin
Shinawatra.


The bomb was also near Chitrada Palace, the Bangkok residence of
Thailand's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej, and occurred on
coronation day, which celebrates the king's accession to the
throne.


"Terrorism is very restricted in the deep south. They are trying
to make a statement regarding the deep south, so it's limited to
that area," said Sawanit.


"Whereas Bangkok and in the northeast and in the north, it is
more internal politics. This has been the trend," he said.


The minister said the blast may be aimed at creating unrest
before the general elections, which he said would be on December
16 or 23.


He said it may also have been to intimidate the Constitutional
Court, due to rule by the end of the month on fraud charges
against Thailand's two main political parties, Thai Rak Thai and
the Democrat party.


"We are in the run-up now to elections in December and always in
the run-up to elections there is a lot of jockeying and creating
of tension for the elections," said Sawanit.


"Two major political parties are going through the court process
that they used illegal methods in the last election," he added.


"There is a belief ... that people are creating these sorts of
tensions in order to upset the process that the court will come
up with the decision," he said.


"It could be postponed and therefore that will be of help to
them," he said.


More than 2,100 people have been killed since January 2004 in the
southern provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani, where
militants are waging a bloody battle for an independent state
separate from Buddhist-majority Thailand.


The escalating violence in the Muslim-majority region bordering
Malaysia has also heightened sectarian tensions.

