

"Spider-Man 3" swooped to the top of the North American box
office with the superhero's latest adventure, figures showed
Sunday, netting a record-smashing 148 million dollars on its
opening weekend.


The figures released by box-office tracker Exhibitor Relations
showed the mutant hero blasting the blockbuster season off to a
super-high earning start.


It dwarfed the previous record, set last year by Disney's
"Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," which took 135.6
million in its first three days, according to the movie industry
newspaper Variety.


The newspaper also calculated the single-day takings for "Spider-
Man 3" on Friday at 59 million, beating the "Pirates" record of
55.8 million in July 2006.


Among the other top grossing movies in North America this
weekend, "Spider-Man 3" eclipsed the 5.7 million for teen
thriller "Disturbia" which it knocked into second place after
three weeks at the top.


The latest instalment in the fantasy action series sees Tobey
Maguire as the web-shooting hero battle his arch-foe the Green
Goblin while juggling a rival love interest to his high school
sweetheart Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst).


Clad in a new-look black spider suit -- the result of tainting by
a malignant glob of protoplasm from outer space -- he also faces
high-octane combat with new villains, Venom and Sandman.


"Spider-Man 3" also shattered records in comic book-loving France
where it was released on May 1, drawing more than 800,000 viewers
in a single day, according to figures from the industry tracker
CBO Box-Office.


At the North America box office, "Fracture," a legal police drama
starring Anthony Hopkins and Ryan Gosling, rose to third place
with takings of 3.5 million dollars, followed by another teen
thriller, "The Invisible," with 3.1 million.


"Next," the story of a Las Vegas magician who can glimpse a few
minutes into the future starring Nicolas Cage and Julianne Moore,
came in fifth with 2.7 million.


The only other new release to rank this weekend, "Lucky You,"
with Eric Bana as an ace poker player competing in Las Vegas,
took 2.5 million dollars, placing sixth.


"Meet the Robinsons," a Disney computer-animated feature about a
child orphan inventor and his saga to save the future, was
seventh with 2.4 million dollars.


The ice skating comedy "Blades of Glory" starring Will Ferrell
continued skidding down the ranks to eighth place, raking in 2.3
million and British police comedy "Hot Fuzz" came next with just
over two million.


"Are We Done Yet" starring rapper Ice Cube held 10th place with
1.7 million dollars.


Rounding out the key top 12 list of high-grossing movies were
gruesome motel horror flick "Vacancy" with 1.4 million and US
wrestler's Stone Cold Steve Austin's action thriller "The
Condemned," about a man who has to fight his way out of a Central
American prison, with 1.05 million.


The top 12 films grossed an estimated 176.6 million dollars.


May will also see new films from two of the most profitable film
franchises in history, "Shrek" and "Pirates of the Caribbean."
The three film series have grossed over 4 billion dollars between
them since 2001.

