

Former Bangladeshi prime minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed was on her
way home Monday after almost two months abroad, during which she
faced a bid by the military- backed government to force her into
exile.


Sheikh Hasina boarded an Etihad Airways flight at London's
Heathrow airport earlier Monday, her press secretary Abul Kalam
Azad told AFP. She was due to arrive in the capital Dhaka at 4:45
pm (1045 GMT) under tight security.


The government, installed after a state of emergency was
declared, has banned political activity, but 16 senior members of
Sheikh Hasina's Awami League party had been given permission to
meet her at the airport, said party general secretary Abdul
Jalil.


But he added that the party had requested supporters not to
gather at the airport.


"We have asked our party activists not to mass at the airport
because all sorts of gatherings are banned during the emergency,"
he said.


However, Jahangir Kabir Nanak, the youth wing president of the
Awami League, said that thousands of supporters could gather.


Sheikh Hasina originally left to visit her family in the United
States on March 15 and last month was refused permission to board
a flight from Britain to Bangladesh, in an attempt by the
government to force her into exile.


In an interview Sunday, Sheikh Hasina said the government had
lied to her.


"The biggest betrayal was that they would not let me return to
the country," Hasina said in an interview with the Bangladeshi
New Age newspaper at her London residence.


The emergency government lifted the ban on Sheikh Hasina's return
last Wednesday and also eased pressure on the most recent prime
minister, Khaleda Zia.


Zia earlier had reportedly agreed to go into exile in Saudi
Arabia in return for leniency for her two sons, who face
corruption allegations.


Bangladesh has been ruled by a military-backed government since
January, when the president declared a state of emergency and
cancelled elections planned for January 22.


The move came after massive protests by the Awami League over
alleged corruption of the voting system.


Sheikh Hasina, prime minister between 1996 and 2001, and Zia of
the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) are fierce rivals who have
traded the top post since 1991.


Critics say they paralysed Bangladesh's democracy and failed to
tackle corruption.


The new government has launched a nationwide crackdown on graft,
arresting more than 50 top politicians from the two main parties.
It said new polls would be held no earlier than late 2008 as
voting reform was needed.


Sheikh Hasina was charged with murder and extortion last month,
but police have suspended a warrant for her arrest in connection
with the alleged murders pending further investigations of the
four deaths in political unrest last year.


Police, however, said she could still face arrest over the
extortion allegations even though no arrest warrant had been
issued.

