

Nicolas Sarkozy's presidential victory marks a turning point for
France, with the electorate making a shift to the right to choose
economic reforms that are the norm in most other developed
nations, analysts said.


The right-wing ruling party chief scored a decisive 53 percent to
47 percent victory over Socialist Segolene Royal on Sunday after
promising a "clean break" from the policies of the past, and a
radical new agenda of tax cuts and work incentives.


Even the communist daily l'Humanite said Monday that "the victory
of the right cannot be disputed."


"This is a very important moment. It's not just a change of
generation at the top but also a change of politics," said
Dominique Moisi of the French Institute for International
Relations (IFRI).


"It is a turning-point for France: Nicolas Sarkozy now has a
clear mandate for change. What the election has proved is that
the French were not in the mood for love -- but in the mood for
work," he said.


For Hall Gardner, professor of international relations at the
American University in Paris, the election marks France's coming
to terms with economic reality.


"People could see the economy was not working. Taxes are so high
it is getting absurd, and Sarkozy made it quite clear his
priority is to ease the burden.


"His emphasis on the work ethic was crucial. Working people say
they are tired of seeing others take advantage of the social
welfare system. It's an electoral mood that long since took hold
in the US and elsewhere and now has arrived in France," he said.


The clear size of Sarkozy's victory over Royal is an important
factor, according to Jean-Philippe Roy, political professor at
the university of Tours, because it means there can be no serious
objection when he undertakes his reforms.


In June's legislative elections, he can expect to win a majority
in the National Assembly, because the political wind is behind
him, Roy said.


But of equal significance is the way the whole French political
landscape is set to be redrawn -- with the decline of the far-
right National Front creating a huge opportunity for Sarkozy's
Union for a Popular Movement (UMP).


"This is a turning-point because the whole left-right balance has
been profoundly shaken. The FN is going to diminish as a force as
Jean-Marie Le Pen leaves the stage -- and that will automatically
bring large numbers of voters into Sarkozy's fold," Roy said.


For Royal's Socialist Party, which has now lost three
presidential elections in a row, the outlook is grim. A bitter
bout of score-settling can be expected, before the party faces up
to the enormous task of deciding its future.


"It is going to be pretty nasty. The recriminations will be
violent, and then they are going to have to completely re-found
the party," said Roy.


Analysts said the Socialist Party may well split into two
entities -- one staying on the ideological left and the other
forming a new coalition party with the centre.


"The dinosaurs will just disappear, like they have everywhere
else," said Gardner.


Many other French leaders have promised reform, but then failed
because of lack of will and protest movements on the street.
However the analysts said that this time there is a strong chance
things will be different.


"I don't really believe there will be significant opposition on
the street. With this very clear mandate, he'll have his elbows
free. He'll have plenty of room for manoeuvre," said Roy.


"What has happened is that France is adjusting to modernity. A
lot of what Nicolas Sarkozy has promised is borrowed from other
countries. In France it is radical, but not anywhere else," said
Moisi.


"He has a clear mandate for change which he has to put into
effect in the next six months. He has to act fast. And I think he
will," he said.

