

The Noon Day Gun still fires every day, the trams still rattle
through busy shopping streets and the view from the Peak is still
stunning -- when the smog clears.


On the face of it, Hong Kong has changed little since the British
flag was lowered a final time on midnight June 30, 1997, ending
more than 150 years of colonial rule and ushering in a new era of
Chinese control.


But as the freewheeling financial centre on China's southern
coast prepares to mark the 10th anniversary of the handover, its
seven million residents can look back on a tumultuous decade.


Doomsayers predicted the worst after the British government under
Margaret Thatcher and China's then leader Deng Xiaoping announced
in 1982 their plan to return Hong Kong to Beijing.


Although the agreement protected Hong Kong's capitalist way of
life within the Chinese state for 50 years under a "One Country,
Two Systems" philosophy, sceptics warned of communist tanks
rolling in.


"Of course none of that happened and in fact, we are now in many
ways, 10 years later, pretty much at square one, where we left
off in 1997," said Allan Zeman, a Canadian-born tycoon who built
up a huge entertainment and property business here over the past
three decades.


"We have been through a lot of ups and downs to get to this
point."


The roller-coaster started two days after the Chinese flag was
raised high above Golden Bauhinia Square, watched by former
shipping tycoon Tung Chee-hwa, Beijing's chosen man to lead the
territory.


"It wasn't the Chinese that changed anything to begin with, it
was economics -- the Asian economic crisis," said Jack Maisano,
president of the American Chamber of Commerce.


Asia's worst financial crisis, sparked by the collapse of the
Thai baht on July 2, 1997, pushed Hong Kong into recession for
seven years.


Worse was to come when in late 2002 a then unknown pneumonia-like
disease, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, appeared in China
before spreading to Hong Kong.


Over the next few months SARS claimed 299 lives here and 1,800
worldwide.


The World Health Organisation proclaimed Hong Kong a no-go zone:
the stock market reeled, property values slumped 70 percent,
tourism plunged two thirds and airlines came to a standstill.


It was a time of fear when people hid their faces behind surgical
masks or stayed at home. "Hong Kong became a ghost town, there
was nobody visiting and nobody went out," said one observer.


Public dissatisfaction over the economy and anger at the slow
response to SARS erupted into open hostility in summer 2003 when
the government tabled an anti- subversion bill that many saw as a
clamp on freedoms.


A huge street protest on July 1, 2003 attracted almost three-
quarters of a million people, according to some estimates, and
shook the government so badly that two cabinet members quit and
even Tung tendered his resignation, only to have it rejected by
Beijing.


Tung did eventually step down early into a second term in 2005.


"July 1 was a watershed -- people suddenly realised the power of
protest, that they could make a difference," said veteran
opposition lawmaker Emily Lau. "It took everyone by surprise,
especially the government, which never really recovered."


The Basic Law introduced at the handover says Hong Kong shall at
some time become a full democracy with leaders elected by popular
vote rather than by an election committee.


The sticking point was when: reformists said as soon as possible
while the government, backed by a China suspicious of democracy,
has adopted a cautious wait-and-see approach.


But as the economy began to pick up, further protests met an
increasingly muted response and politics took a back seat.


Since 2004 the big issue has been China's booming economy and how
best to harness its double-digit growth.


"If anything has changed, it's the relationship with China," said
Maisano. "China is the reason we are here -- if you don't do
business in China now, you just don't do business."


Hong Kong pulled out of recession in 2004 and has recorded
economic growth of around 6 percent per annum since, thanks
largely to the boom in China.


This new wealth has produced obvious changes -- luxury stores
adorn almost every shopping centre, car ownership has soared,
bars and restaurants flourish again. Property prices have
rebounded to 1997 levels and are still rising.


Western popular culture has digested into a Chinese form that has
spawned Hong Kong brands of hip hop, street fashion and
attitudes.


"I think SARS ... made youngsters more determined to enjoy their
lives and make the most of it," said Davena Mok, director of
A-Vibe, a youth marketing and PR consultancy.


"There are cool 'hubs' where all the creatives have studios, and
there are music and movie festivals, art shows, and so on -- I
think this change was a result of a generation of kids who learnt
to care for more in their life than just being a banker and
owning a Prada suit."


But pollution has worsened considerably since 1997. On some days,
a blanket of smog shields one side of the harbour from the other,
and powerful business lobbies are demanding action lest it
threaten the city's future as a financial hub.


The democracy issue remains unresolved, with Tung's successor
Donald Tsang unable to find a compromise to appease reformists
and conservatives.


For many, these issues and a yawning poverty gap, a gradual
erosion of Hong Kong's laissez faire economic policy and the
sense that China has imposed its influence, curbing free speech,
are signs the city has lost its purpose.


Hong Kongers say they lack a clear identity, torn between the
mindset of a city formed in the image of its former colonial
masters but now economically and politically dependent on its
Chinese motherland.


"We frittered away the past ten years," businessman and fashion
designer David Tang said. "There are so many things that make
Hong Kong special, and they have been ignored. Instead, our only
achievement has been Disneyland."

