

The wreckage of a Kenyan Airways plane carrying 114 people was
found on Sunday in swampland in southwest Cameroon more than 36
hours after vanishing from radar screens in a violent storm,
officials said.


A Cameroonian official ruled out the possibility of any survivors
although the civil aviation authority and the airline's chief
executive said there was no news on casualties.


"Kenya Airways regrets to confirm that its flight KQ 507 has been
located on a mangrove swamp around 20 kilometres (12 miles) south
of Douala on the planned flight path," company CEO Titus Naikuni
told a news conference in Nairobi.


"At this time search and rescue operations are in progress and we
have no confirmed information about survivors or any possible
casualties," he said.


Another Cameroonian official ruled out the possibility that
anyone could have suvived the crash.


"A team of specialists should arrive at the scene tomorrow
(Monday), notably experts to identify bodies through DNA," said
the Cameroonian official, who declined to be named.


The six-months-old Boeing 737-800, which began its journey in the
Ivory Coast city of Abidjan, took off from Douala airport in
western Cameroon in a violent storm after midnight Friday, headed
for Nairobi.


It was carrying nine Kenyan crew and 105 passengers including 83
Africans of several nationalities, 15 Indians, six Chinese, five
Britons, one Swiss, one Swede and one US citizen. Most of the
passengers were connecting through Nairobi to other destinations
outside Kenya.


It sent out a distress signal over southern Cameroon shortly
after taking off.


Initially the search centred on a vast area of dense forest but
was then widened to marshland and sea.


Kenya Airways CEO Titus Naikuni had told a news conference that
fisherman had reported hearing "a loud bang that was accompanied
by a disturbance of water."


He released the names of passengers and the nine Kenyan crew.


One French and one Cameroonian military helicopter and two
military planes flew over remote equatorial forest southwest of
Yaounde, while police searched on the ground.


Kenyan Airways said Kenyan officials were on the scene, France
had lent helicopters and the US National Transportation Safety
Board and Boeing had sent experts.


Naikuni said earlier that the plane stopped emitting emergency
signals after an initial distress call, though an automatic
device should have kept up emissions for two days.


The transmitter is usually activated when there is a sudden
ascent or a sudden descent of a plane, Kenya Airways pilot
Captain Paul Mwangi said.


One woman in Nairobi expressed relief after staying up all night,
fearful that her nephew, who works for Kenya Airways, had been on
the plane.


"His name is not on the list. He's alive. We're very grateful and
thankful," Julia Ojiambo told AFP at a crisis centre in the
Kenyan capital.


Many joined in prayers for the missing at Sunday mass, while
counsellors spoke with worried families.


"They're in a state of denial and great and grave apprehension,"
said psychiatrist Frank Njenga, head of Kenya's crisis centres.


Kenya Airways expressed its sympathy to families of the
passengers and said it would transport them to Cameroon and
provide accommodation for up to two next of kin per passenger.


"The government wishes to reassure all Kenyans and also the
international community that we're doing whatever we can," Mutua
said earlier.


Kenya Airways has three 737-800s in its fleet and Naikuni said
the other two would not be grounded.


In January 2000 a Kenya Airways Airbus crashed into the sea after
taking off from Abidjan airport, killing 169 passengers and crew.


Air France-KLM owns a 26-percent stake in Kenya Airways, which
prides itself on its reputation as a reliable African air
company.

