

Australian media Monday blamed a greed-fuelled bluff for the
spectacular failure of a 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US)
private equity bid for national airline Qantas.


"Qantas takeover grounded by greed", The Australian newspaper
said in an editorial, with a front-page analysis headlined "Giant
bluff goes badly wrong, no hedging it".


The Airline Partners Australia (APA) bid initially collapsed late
on Friday after it failed to garner more than 50 percent of
shareholder acceptances by a 7:00 pm (0900 GMT) deadline.


A revival briefly looked possible after a major American investor
suddenly pushed acceptances to 50.6 percent, just hours after the
deadline had passed.


But those hopes were dashed on Sunday after the Takeovers Panel
refused an appeal to count the late acceptances, effectively
scuttling the consortium's chances of getting the bid off the
ground.


The Australian described the failure as "a complete world-class
debacle."


"This was all about the giant game of bluff played by
international hedge funds for hundreds of millions of dollars in
hard cash," it said.


"American billionaire Samuel Heyman woke up early Friday morning
in the US to several frantic and incredulous phone calls.


"The most furious were from two giant US hedge funds. The funds
were beside themselves that Heyman had managed to scupper the
entire Qantas deal by reneging on a mutual understanding.


"This understanding had been supposed to deliver just enough
stock to get the bid across the line by 5.00am New York time. Not
delivering on the deal was not in the script."


If APA had gained 50 percent of shareholder acceptances, it would
have triggered a two-week extension of the 5.45 dollar a share
offer to allow the group to reach the minimum 70 percent it
needed to succeed.


The Sydney Morning Herald said Heyman Investment Associates
simply did not believe the bid would fail without its acceptance
and was holding out for a better price for its shares once the 50
percent had been secured.


Heyman believed Australia's Macquarie Bank, which headed the
consortium, was trying to get the 70 percent in one go, the paper
said.


"This is one of the great f--- ups of the world," one senior
executive involved in the process was quoted as saying.


Trading in Qantas shares was suspended as the stockmarket opened
Monday but was due to resume trading at 11.00am (0100 GMT).


Analysts say shares are expected to fall sharply from their
Friday close of 5.38 dollars.


Qantas chairwoman Margaret Jackson, who had strongly supported
the takeover bid, is likely to come under strong pressure to
resign, the analysts said.

