

Here is the full text of president-elect Nicolas Sarkozy's
victory speech before 10,000 people in the Place de la Concorde
in Paris.


"This evening is a victory for France. There is only one France.
I ask you to be generous, to be tolerant, to be fraternal. I ask
you to hold out your hand. I ask you to give the image of a
France that is united, together, which leaves no- one by the
wayside.


"My dear friends, I have seen victories before in my career. But
victory is only beautiful if it is generous. Victory is not
vengeance - it is being open in spirit. Victory only has meaning
if it is victory for the country in its entirety.


"Millions of French are watching us. Millions of French have
placed their trust in us. You must understand that the first
people I wish to address are those who did not place their trust
in us.


"I want them to understand that I will be a president of the
republic for all the French without exception."


"I want to say to all those who doubted in politics: politics is
back. Resignation to the inevitable is not part of my vocabulary.


"I want to say to all who suffer from injustice, to all who are
not respected, all those who placed their faith in arguments
other than mine -- I will be a president who fights injustice.


"I will give each person his or her opportunity. In the republic
that I want to serve, there cannot be rights without obligations.
All must have their opportunity, but they must earn it by work,
by personal commitment, by belief. All must have again their
personal dignity.


"We are going to turn a new page of our history. I recognise the
immense responsibilities that weigh on my shoulders. From here in
the Place de la Concorde -- which has witnessed so many
historical moments -- I want to say to everyone: I will not
betray you, I will not lie to you, I will not disappoint you.


"I promised you full employment. I will fight for it. I said
spending power is a serious problem. I will fight to make it
better. I said that the identity of France, that cultural
commitment in the service of the history and culture of France,
are priorities -- and they will be.


"I want to make the defence of our planet a priority. I want
everywhere in the world the oppressed, the women who are
tortured, the children imprisoned or forced to work -- I want
them to know that there is a country that will be generous for
all who are persecuted -- France.


"I want you to be proud of your country, of its history. We have
just one country -- we must love it and serve it.


"For me this is all a great happiness and a great emotion. But
you know: France gave me everything. Now the time has come for me
to give everything to France."

