

Tony Blair, who on May 2 marked 10 years as British prime
minister, can lay claim to helping bring an end to decades of
sectarian violence in Northern Ireland, according to analysts and
colleagues.


The Good Friday Agreement was signed on April 10, 1998, providing
for power- sharing government in the British-run province,
decommissioning of terrorist weapons and the release of
paramilitary prisoners.


Almost nine years later, a BPIX poll for The Observer newspaper
published on April 8 found that 23 percent of the 2,034 people
surveyed believed the Good Friday Agreement and its aftermath was
Blair's "biggest success."


"If he'd only done one thing in the last 10 years and it was
Northern Ireland, he'd earned his place in history," Blair's
former interior minister and foreign secretary Jack Straw told a
recent BBC television documentary.


Britain's last colonial governor in Hong Kong, Chris Patten,
added: "By and large, history will regard the boldness he showed
on Northern Ireland as probably one of his main contributions to
British history."


Many analysts agree that Blair -- himself acutely aware of the
need for a quick deal -- had luck on his side.


Protestants and Catholics were war weary, his Conservative
predecessor, John Major, had done the groundwork in the early
1990s while Blair came to the issue with a massive electoral
mandate and a clean slate.


Referendums in Northern Ireland and Ireland gave overwhelming
backing to the agreement. Elections for a Belfast assembly were
held. Ireland later dropped its constitutional claim to the
north.


Good Friday signatory David Trimble, then-leader of the
Protestant Ulster Unionist party who won the 1998 Nobel Peace
Prize with the moderate Catholic Social and Democratic Labour
Party's John Hume, said Blair "turned it round."


"You could say that eventually something would have happened. It
wouldn't have happened at this time without Tony Blair," he
added.


But implementing the agreement has not been straightforward.


On August 15, 1998, 29 people were killed and more than 200
injured when a dissident republican bomb exploded in Omagh, 69
miles (111 kilometres) west of Belfast, in what remains the worst
atrocity in three decades of "The Troubles."


The release of paramilitary prisoners -- a gesture designed to
win support for peace among hardliners on both sides -- caused
anger and fresh heartache for their victims' families.


And unionists -- those favouring continued links with Britain --
have been sceptical about whether the Irish Republican Army (IRA)
in particular had really given up the gun, as it said it had in
mid-2005.


The Belfast assembly itself was suspended in 2000 amid a row over
the pace and scope of decommissioning. In 2002, London resumed
direct rule after claims of a republican spy ring operating in
the Stormont parlimament buildings.


The restoration of a measure of self-rule looked in doubt until
as recently as March unless the Protestant Democratic Unionists
(DUP) and Catholics of Sinn Fein agreed to share power.


But DUP hardliner Ian Paisley, who has loudly said "No" to the
forces of republicanism, and Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, once
described as "the IRA godfather of godfathers," are now set to be
assembly first minister and deputy.


Blair famously remarked after in 1998 that he felt "the hand of
history upon our shoulder" as the agreement was signed.


He left the soundbites at home after the DUP and Sinn Fein agreed
an 11th hour deal on March 26 to restore the assembly on May 8,
leaving it to his Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain to hail
the "new era" in the province.


Although many gave the deal a cautious welcome, even Blair's
traditional opponents praised him.


"If Tony Blair has one legacy of which he can be proud, this
surely will be it," the Daily Mail newspaper said in an
editorial. "There is still a long way to go but yesterday they
really did make history."

