

As news of rightwinger Nocolas Sarkozy's presidential victory
flashed up on the television in the cafe, Gnyma Cisse buried her
head in her hands in a mixture of frustration and fury.


"I'm disgusted," said Cisse, 23, who had gathered to watch the
election coverage in Le Metro cafe which caters to a largely
immigrant and first generation French-born clientelle in the La
Courneuve suburb of Paris.


Cisse, of Sengalese origin, called her sister-in-law who lives
here without French nationality.


"Pack your bags. The planes are already on standby," she said,
alluding to Sarkozy's tough immigration policy and his decision
as interior minister to step up the expulsion of illegal
immigrants.


"There's nothing good about this," Meziane Ourad, an unemployed
50-year-old, said of the election result as he smoked one in a
seemingly endless chain of cigarettes.


"France is entering uncharted waters. This is going to be an
oppressive society," said Ourad, who brought his family to France
from Algeria 20 years ago.


His only hope, he said, was that legislative elections in June
would produce a National Assembly controlled by a grouping other
than Sarkozy's ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) and
therefore provide a counterpoint to the powerful executive
office.


"Otherwise, we've got five terrible years ahead," he said.


Karim, a 28-year-old fishmonger of Algerian and Moroccan
parentage, said he could not understand what he described as
Sarkozy's "hatred" of foreigners.


"Sarkozy says he likes the France that gets up early. Well, when
he gets up early in the morning, he'll find that France is made
up of black and Arabs," he said.


Like other high-immigrant Parisian suburbs, La Courneueve
witnessed weeks of rioting in 2005 by angry residents who
complained of being excluded from the French mainstream.


"I voted Segolene!" a group of young women of African origin
chanted in unison, displaying their loyalty to the defeated
presidential candidate, Socialist Segolene Royal.


"I really like her. She's not a racist," said Assetou, 19. "God
knows I hope she'll be president one day."


Several locals predicted that the 2005 riots would revisist La
Courneuve.


"With Sarkozy, the riots will be permanent," said Farid, 25, a
delivery man.


Mohamed Mechmache, the head of AC le Feu, a grassroots suburban
association set up in the wake of the violence 18 months ago ago,
told reporters after Sarkozy's victory that France "had failed to
understand the message" of 2005.


"There are those who live well, the rich people, and those who
will continue to suffer a lot," Mechmache said. "The disparity is
enormous."

