

South Korea and the European Union will Monday  start free trade
talks aimed at linking Asia's third largest economy to the
world's biggest trading bloc.


South Korea, fresh from concluding a landmark pact with the
United States, hopes to become a free trade hub linking America
and Europe and to steal a march on its commercial rivals China
and Japan.


The European Union sees a deal, which Seoul hopes to conclude
within a year, as giving it a bridgehead in Northeast Asia.


Inacio Garcia Berceo, a European Commission director, leads a
22-member EU negotiating team at the talks set to start at a
five-star hotel at 0500 GMT.


The South Korean team will be led by Deputy Trade Minister Kim
Han-Soo.


The two sides, who will wrap up the first round Friday, are
expected to hold four or five rounds this year and alternate
between Seoul and Brussels.


The EU was South Korea's second largest trading partner after
China last year, with trade reaching 78.56 billion dollars. It is
the biggest single foreign investor in the country, committing
4.97 billion dollars last year alone.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson and South Korean Trade
Minister Kim Hyun- Chong called "for rapid progress" in a joint
statement Sunday as they formally launched the round.


An FTA "would open new markets and expand opportunities for
Korean and EU businesses while giving valuable momentum to
liberalisation of global trade," they said.


Mandelson stressed that the ultimate goal remains the revival of
the stalled Doha Development Round of talks under the World Trade
Organisation.


"I see any bilateral agreement between us as a complement to the
(Doha Round), not an alternative to it," he told a press
conference Sunday.


Kim Hyun-Chong said his country would eventually serve as "an FTA
hub in Northeast Asia" for the world.


"The opening of our market is not a matter of choice but a matter
of survival," he said in a strong commitment to liberalisation.


Apart from the FTA with the US last month, which needs
ratification in both countries' legislatures, South Korea has
signed FTAs with Chile and Singapore. One with the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, excluding Thailand, will take effect on
June 1.


It is reportedly close to a pact with Canada and in June is set
to begin a second feasibility study with China on a potential
deal.


Mandelson said the proposed deal with South Korea "represents a
turning towards a stronger focus on Asia" for the EU.


South Korea hopes to boost exports of cars, microchips,
electronic goods and textiles. Officials also say they expect any
pact to alleviate a trade deficit with Japan, from which South
Korean electronics firms now import many of their high-tariff
parts and machinery.


Mandelson said the EU was pushing to address not only
liberalising goods and services but also removing various non-
tariff barriers to trade.

