

The International Air Transport Association (IATA) on Monday
defended the aviation sector from criticisms it is among the
worst offenders in emitting man- made carbon dioxide.


Andrew Drysdale, IATA's regional vice president, said the sector
was being unfairly labelled as a big pollution offender despite
only accounting for two percent of heat-trapping carbon emissions
globally.


"If you look at the adverse press coverage that we are getting,
you would think that we are the largest polluter in the world,"
Drysdale said in a speech at a regional airport conference in
Singapore.


"We are not," he said, producing slides that showed electricity
use and heat production accounted for 35 percent of the global
carbon dioxide emissions.


Drysdale, however, said the sector cannot afford to be complacent
and must take measures to cut down on carbon emissions since the
industry is expected to grow, especially in the Asia Pacific
region.


"It's two percent but it's two percent and two percent is still
two percent and we've got to do something about it," said
Drysdale.


"What is more, our industry is growing and as it grows,
inevitably we have to burn and we will add more to our emissions
so we have to do something about it."


According to Drysdale, the new generation of aircraft being
produced are more fuel efficient, which means the sector is
cutting the amount of carbon dioxide emitted per passenger per
kilometre.


Boeing's new 787 Dreamliner, to be unveiled on July 8, will use
20 percent less fuel than any other plane of its size through
engine improvements and the use of lighter composite metals for
structure, according to the US aerospace giant.


Peter de Jong, president of the Pacific Asia Travel Association,
also defended the airline sector.


"Aircraft generate emissions of course but they are not the
carbon-spewing monsters that many have mistakenly come to
believe," de Jong told the same conference.


"We all know that if air travel was banned, there would only be a
two percent reduction in emissions but the impact on global
economies would be catastrophic."


He urged the airline sector and airport players to band together
to address the environmental issue and work out solutions that
will not affect the industry.


"We tend to forget that for nearly five decades, air transport
has provided significant social and economic benefits to the
society," said de Jong.


"Our industry should better communicate its positive impact on
poverty alleviation and the benefits brought by air transport in
terms of jobs, education and wealth creation."


The UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in a
report Friday that the tools available to battle climate change
are at minimal cost to the global economy.


Heading off the worst effects of climate change would shave less
than 0.12 percent off the world's economic growth in the years
2030 and 2050, the report said.


That would cover the cost of efforts to limit global warming to
2.0-2.4 degrees Celsius (3.6-4.3 degrees Fahrenheit), generally
recognised by experts as the threshold at which some of the most
extreme impacts of climate change will begin.

