

Oil prices fell in Asian trade Monday to levels last seen in
March on easing concerns over tight gasoline (petrol)  supplies
ahead of the US summer driving season, dealers said.


At 11:20 am (0320 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in June, was down 15 cents to
61.78 dollars per barrel after sliding 1.26 dollars to close at
61.93 dollars in late US trades Friday.


Brent prices were not available as London markets were closed for
a holiday.


Oil prices have shed more than four dollars a barrel in New York
since April 27, or nearly seven percent of their value, to trade
at levels last seen on March 22.


"I think prices seems to be easing on the geopolitcal front and
on the supply outlook ... we're seeing less of a concern over the
gasoline issue," said Hong Kong-based CFC Seymour Ssecurities
analyst Steve Rowles.


Despite the latest decline in US gasoline stockpiles, there are
signs US refineries could further increase production after
raising capacity utilisation by a half point 88.3 percent last
week to meet demand.


US gasoline stocks are a traditional focus during the summer
holiday season when Americans take to the roads for their
holidays.


US gasoline reserves fell 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million in
the week ending April 29 and are down 34.1 million barrels or 15
percent since early February.


"Stockpiles have declined almost 15 percent over the past three
months. It does appear that it may have finally reached its
(lowest point). We are heading into the peak driving season and
things are improving on US refineries' output," Rowles said.


On the geopolitical front, investors are monitoring the fresh
violence in Nigeria, Africa's biggest oil exporter.


Armed men kidnapped a Briton from an oil rig in southern Nigeria,
a report said Saturday at the end of a week at least 20
foreigners were abducted.


"The Nigerian situation is not as big as the things going on in
the Middle East ... the Iranian situation has also been more
peaceful than a month ago," said Rowles.

