

European newspapers hailed Monday a sea-change in French politics
with the election of right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy as the
country's next president, which they said gave him a clear
mandate to push his programme of tough economic and social
reform.


There were few words of regret that outgoing President Jacques
Chirac was making way for a "strongman" like Sarkozy, who
defeated his Socialist rival Segolene Royal in the runoff vote on
Sunday.


"Not only France but also the Europeans expect that Sarkozy will
make up for lost ground," wrote the centre-left German daily
Berliner Zeitung in reference to Chirac's 12 years in office.


"France has opted for radical renewal," wrote the German economic
daily Handelsblatt. "After 12 years of Jacques Chirac, the
weakest president of the Fifth Republic, a new strongman has
arrived at the Elysee."


The Times of London, a right-of-centre paper, described Sarkozy's
victory in its editorial on the subject as "the most important
political change in France for a generation" and warned French
citizens to brace themselves for "the Gallic equivalent of
Thatcherism."


The right-wing Daily Telegraph in Britain declared that the 52
-year-old former interior minister "now has an unarguable mandate
for radical change."


"Will he now enact his manifesto? Will he restore temperance to
France's spending, balance to her employment law, sanity to her
immigration policy, order to her suburbs?


"The new president represents his country's last, best chance to
join the 21st century."


Some commentators warned of trouble ahead for Sarkozy, who has
promised a get- tough approach to law and order and fanned riots
in high-immigrant suburbs in 2005 with remarks about clearing the
"rabble" off the streets.


"Sarkozy has become the president of a polarised France," said
the leftist Dutch paper De Volkskrant, while La Tribune de Geneve
warned that "the French are quick to take to the streets" if
their leadership fails them.


Some editorials predicted the French left would struggle to
recover before legislative elections in June, but warned Sarkozy
to temper his victory celebrations or risk a backlash from voters
next month.


In Geneva, Le Temps website saw "dark days" ahead for the French
Socialist Party, which suffered its third straight election
defeat on Sunday.


"For Segolene Royal, the blow is terrible," it said. "The
magnitude of the defeat suggests difficult days for the left.


"Where will they turn -- to the centre or to the extreme left --
to avoid another rout in the legislative elections in June?"


But for other observers the real question was whether Sarkozy
could make good on his promises to reduce unemployment,
especially among the young, and create a more competitive France
through a liberal economic reform agenda.


"The new president of France must liberate the country from
protectionism and the debt trap," wrote Austria's Die Presse.
"Unemployment among the young and poverty among immigrants call
out for an urgent solution."

