

Southeast Asia's biggest lender DBS Bank and 22 prominent
investors from the Middle East Gulf region on Monday launched
Singapore's first Islamic bank.


The Islamic Bank of Asia (IB Asia) will have an initial paid up
capital of 418 million US dollars, with DBS contributing 60
percent of the amount, the lender said in a statement.


Investors plan to raise the new Islamic bank's paid up capital in
the next few weeks to 500 million dollars, with DBS, which is
also Singapore's biggest bank by assets, continuing to hold a
majority stake.


"IB Asia will focus on commercial banking, corporate finance,
capital market and private banking," the statement said.


It described DBS' partners as coming from "prominent families and
industrial groups from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries."
The GCC comprises the oil-rich nations of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain,
Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.


The new bank, a subsidiary of DBS, will have a nine-member board
of directors, chaired by Abdulla Hasan Saif, the advisor for
economic affairs to Bahrain's prime minister.


Vince Cook, 45, a veteran British banker with more than 20 years
experience in the Middle East, has been named chief executive.


DBS chief executive Jackson Tai said IB Asia will develop and
distribute financial instruments for corporate and private
banking clients in the Middle East and Asia.


"Singapore is becoming a convenient stopover for GCC investors
and capital flows bound for Asia," Tai said.


"Middle Eastern investors are seeking new markets and innovative
ways to protect and grow their wealth."


Tai also noted that the bank's sharia board, which oversees
compliance with Islamic laws, have four of the world's most
respected Islamic scholars.


DBS began its serious foray into Islamic finance last year when
the bank was granted a licence to operate in Dubai where it has
opened a flagship branch there offering wholesale banking
products and services.


Singapore faces rivalry from neighbours Malaysia and Brunei in
chasing Islamic funds.


Islamic finance fuses principles of sharia or Islamic law and
modern banking. Funds are banned from investing in companies
associated with tobacco, alcohol or gambling considered taboo by
Muslims. The system also bans the earning of interest.

