

The San Antonio Spurs left the Phoenix Suns bloodied and beaten
Sunday as they seized the lead in their National Basketball
Association Western Conference semi-final series.


Steve Nash suffered a bleeding gash on his nose in a fourth-
quarter collision, and his absence from the floor cost the Suns
as they failed to execute down the stretch of a 111-106 loss to
the Spurs in game one of the best-of-seven second- round series.


Tim Duncan had 33 points and 16 rebounds and Tony Parker added 32
and eight assists for the third-seeded Spurs, who have now won
their last five playoff games in Phoenix dating to 2003.


The contrast in styles between the run-and-gun Suns and the
defensive-minded Spurs produced another thrilling contest. There
were eight lead changes and three ties in the fourth quarter.


The key moment came midway through the period, when Nash and
Parker collided headfirst. Parker stayed on the floor for a
moment and ended up with a bump on his forehead.


Nash had a cut across the bridge of his nose that would not stop
bleeding despite treatment at nearly every break in the game.


Between changes of the bandage, the two-time MVP kept the Suns in
the game.  He scored seven straight points for Phoenix, including
a 3-pointer that forged a 102-102 tie with 2:23 to play.


Duncan made a tough one-handed shot in the lane and Parker
drilled a jumper before Nash responded with a scoop layup to cut
the deficit to 106-104 with 1:13 remaining.


The Suns got back the ball with a chance to tie, but coach Mike
D'Antoni substituted for Nash, who again needed to have the
bleeding staunched. Without the superstar point guard on the
floor, Phoenix missed a pair of shots before guard Leandro
Barbosa committed a needless foul with 32 seconds to play.


San Antonio's Manu Ginobili split a pair of free throws before
Amare Stoudemire sank a pair for Phoenix, making it 107-106 with
26 seconds left.


On the next possession, Barbosa fouled Parker before the ball was
inbounded, allowing Michael Finley to go to the line for another
free throw.


Ginobili added another for a 109-106 lead, and Stoudemire missed
a layup as the Suns hopes faded.

