

Panathinaikos Athens on Sunday won the European basketball
championship, edging defending champions CSKA Moscow 93-91 in a
highly-charged Euroleague final in Athens in front of a frenzied
crowd of over 15,000 Greek supporters.


The Russians got within two points on a desperation three-pointer
by American guard JR Holden in the final second, but the Greek
hosts had earlier held their cool in the face of a CSKA onslaught
to win their fourth continental title.


"It was a great game tonight, both teams played good basketball,"
said Panathinaikos coach Zeljko Obradovic, who won his sixth
Euroleague championship, setting a new league record.


"This is not the last title," he warned.


Serbian center Dejan Tomasevic had a huge fourth quarter for the
Greeks, scoring half his 16 points to carry them through at
decisive moments, while Lithuanian forward Ramunas Siskauskas was
the overall top scorer for Panathinaikos with 20 points.


The Greeks' guard Dimitris Diamantidis, who had 15 points on
almost flawless shooting was voted the final's Most Valuable
Player.


For the outgoing Russian champions, Greek guard Thodoris
Papaloukas -- voted the tournament MVP on Saturday -- had 23
points and eight assists, while Slovenian forward Matjaz Smodis
added 18 points.


Papaloukas spearheaded a CSKA comeback early in the fourth
quarter, when the Russians were down by eight points, and again
four minutes before the end with the deficit at 82-73.


The Russians' top scorer, American guard Trajan Langdon nailed
two consecutive three-pointers to bring the difference to a
single basket with under a minute remaining, but Panathinaikos
forward Mike Batiste made a key jumpshot to spark another run for
the Greeks.


"We got too short at a critical moment when the foul trouble of
some players forced us into mistakes," said CSKA coach Ettore
Messina.


The word before the match was that everything would hinge on
defence, but the game was fast-paced from the onset.


The Greeks got off to a good start, grabbing a 16-8 lead halfway
through the first quarter but CSKA tightened their defence and
muscled their way to the basket, narrowing the gap to just a
point.


Backed by around 1,000 supporters -- including Russian first
deputy PM Sergei Ivanov -- CSKA sought to exploit a mismatch with
big men like Aleksey Savrasenko (2m17) and David Andersen (2m12)
for overhead passes into the paint.


Panathinaikos coach Zeljko Obradovic responded by throwing in
Serbian guard Milos Vujanic and ordering his men to drive to the
basket.


Drawing fouls and converting all their free throws, the Greens
slowly built a 10-point lead (46-36), highlighted by a Batiste
dunk.


Panathinaikos closed the first half with 12/12 free throws and a
solid 68 percent on field goal shooting, including 4/7 three-
pointers.


They ended the game with a cool 38/46 free throws, and 54 percent
in field goals.


Panathinaikos also won the European title in 1996, 2000 and 2002.


CSKA won prior versions of the competition in 1961, 1963, 1969
and 1971.


Diamantidis on Saturday was voted on the All-Euroleague first
team as the competition's top point guard, joining shooting guard
Juan Carlos Navarro of Barcelona, small forward Trajan Langdon of
CSKA, power forward Luis Scola of Tau Ceramica and center Nikola
Vujcic of Maccabi Tel Aviv.


In the Spanish duel earlier on Sunday for positions 3-4, Unicaja
Malaga outsmarted Tau Ceramica 76-74 with a last-second driving
layup by American guard Marcus Brown.


Europe's version of the NBA, the Euroleague brings together 24
clubs from the continent and broader region, including teams from
Spain, Italy, Greece, France, Turkey and Israel.


The 2008 Euroleague Final Four will be held in Madrid on May 2-4.

