

The White House was busily primping for the most lavish state
reception of Texas-raised US President George W. Bush's term with
a no-holds barred reception to welcome Britain's Queen Elizabeth
II.


The monarch and her husband Prince Philip were to be greeted on
the south lawn of the White House Monday with a 21-gun salute and
the national anthems of the two countries.


As the White House polished its best china and crystal tableware,
7,000 guests including diplomats, members of the US Congress and
cabinet and other officials chose their grandest outfits in which
to attend the ceremony.


Only the most formal dress code of white-tie and tails would do
for the five- course state dinner in the queen's honor hosted by
the president and First Lady Laura Bush Monday evening.


"It will be closely watched by the social elite for its collision
of cultures -- Texas swagger meets British prim," the New York
Times predicted.


Bush has hosted eight official visits during his six years as
president -- including by leaders from Poland, Kenya, Japan and
China -- but it is the first time he has applied the white-tie
treatment.


"The United States has no closer ally and friend than Great
Britain," the White House said in a statement detailing the
tightly-coordinated protocol for the royal visit.


Arrangements for the dinner were being handled by the office of
Laura Bush, who was said to be behind the idea to decree such
formal attire, US media reported.


The White House said the tables for the dinner would be adorned
with "historically significant pieces" from its collection,
including gold-rimmed china, the president's "house crystal" and
English vermeil gilded silver.


Among the 134 guests will be Vice-President Dick Cheney,
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and General Peter Pace,
chairman of the US military joint chiefs of staff, the White
House said.


Lampposts near the White House were festooned with Union Jacks
and US flags ahead of her arrival.


The White House also said it had coordinated closely with the
State Department's Office of Protocol, which gives advice for
state visits including "the proper way to address foreign
dignitaries and visitors" and the dietary preferences of
visitors.


The queen "doesn't like spicy food," newspapers quoted Anita
McBride, Laura Bush's chief of staff, as saying.


After seeing a historic English settlement in Virginia and a
classic horse race in Kentucky, the royal couple touched down at
Andrews Air Force Base near the capital on Sunday, according to a
schedule from the Royal Family.


The queen last came to the United States in 1991 when Bush's
father was president. Her first visit had been as a 31-year-old
monarch in 1957, when she met then president Dwight Eisenhower.


She kept a low profile on Sunday in Kentucky, where she was the
guest of William Farish, a horse breeder and former US ambassador
to London.


Earlier this week, Elizabeth and Philip also toured Jamestown,
Virginia, celebrating its 400th anniversary as the first
permanent English settlement in the Americas.


They will host the Bushes for a reciprocal dinner at the British
embassy on Tuesday.


In the meantime they will tour the NASA Goddard Space Flight
Center and a children's medical center in Washington DC, lay a
wreath at the World War II National Memorial and meet war
veterans before heading back to London.

