

Singapore and Indonesia will sign an extradition treaty this week
that Jakarta hopes will boost its fight against corruption, the
foreign ministers of both nations said late Monday.


The accord, which Jakarta considers vital in its pursuit of
suspects wanted in Indonesia for corruption, will be signed on
Friday in the Indonesian resort of Bali, a joint statement said.


Lawmakers in Jakarta have said the city state is used by
Indonesian criminals to launder money -- an allegation Singapore
has denied.


Singapore Foreign Minister George Yeo and Indonesian Foreign
Minister Hassan Wirayuda will sign the pact in ceremonies to be
witnessed by their respective leaders, the statement said.


The defence ministers of the both nations will also sign a
defence cooperation agreement which had been negotiated in
parallel with the extradition pact.


"The talks were characterised by a high degree of cooperation,
friendship, flexibility and goodwill," Yeo told reporters at a
late-night news conference.


"Goodwill is in ample supply on both sides so we were able to
reach a good agreement for both the extradition treaty and
defence cooperation."


Wirayuda said: "We strongly believe that the conclusions of these
two agreements will strongly contribute in our joint efforts to
strengthen our bilateral relations."


The statement said that the ministers and armed forces chiefs
endorsed the text of the extradition and defence cooperation
agreements drafted by their respective negotiating panels.


Negotiations for the extradition treaty started in 2005.


Indonesian officials have said that a number of suspects,
including former officials and businessmen, are alleged to have
fled Singapore and put their money in banks and other investments
in the affluent island-nation.


Singapore, a regional financial centre, has denied the
allegations and insisted it has enough safeguards to prevent the
country from becoming a magnet for laundered funds.


Some officials in Jakarta had accused Singapore of delaying the
signing of the extradition accord.


In January, Indonesia abruptly banned the export of land sand
used to make concrete, a move that is hurting contractors in
Singapore's booming building and construction industry.


Although it was not included in the sand ban, Indonesian
authorities also detained several barges carrying granite to
Singapore, effectively disrupting supplies of the material also
used to make concrete.


Jakarta's official line was that the sand ban was imposed due to
stop the destruction of the environment caused by sand quarrying.


However, some senior Indonesian officials have been quoted in the
media as saying the ban was carried out to force Singapore to
sign the extradition treaty.

