

New Zealand faces key challenges in improving living standards
and coping with growing health and superannuation spending
pressures, the OECD said Tuesday.


The Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development said New Zealand's living standards remain 16 percent
below the OECD median and productivity growth has been
lacklustre.


"Looking forward, the key challenges are to raise national
incomes and to meet the fiscal pressures that are likely to arise
over the longer-term from an ageing population," the group of
developed countries said in its survey of New Zealand.


The share of gross domestic product (GDP) devoted to health and
pension spending could more than double by 2050, according to New
Zealand government projections.


Faster productivity growth would be important if these pressures
were to be absorbed, the OECD said.


Two factors impeding productivity growth might be fluctuations in
the currency and higher long-term interest rates, which could
deter investment, it said.


The survey described New Zealand as "one of the most flexible and
resilient economies in the OECD" but it added that a large
external deficit, very low household savings and still-strong
inflation pressures indicated unbalanced growth.


"There are some signs that these imbalances are starting to
unwind but the short-term outlook remains uncertain," the survey
said.


On current settings, inflation pressures would take some time to
dissipate and strong growth in government spending was
complicating the central bank's stabilisation task.


The survey said New Zealand's pension scheme -- under which all
people over the age of 65 receive payments -- was sound but moves
by the government to invest funds would only partially meet
rising pension outlays.


New Zealand also needs to deepen and enhance the efficiency of
its "relatively thin" financial markets.


The tax system, while long regarded as one of the most efficient
in the OECD, needs to continue adapting to future needs, it said.

