

A Chicago man who spent 25 years in jail for a rape he didn't
commit had his conviction quashed on the basis of new DNA
evidence Monday, bringing to 200 the number of cases overturned
in similar fashion nationwide since the 1980s.


A judge vacated Jerry Miller's conviction on all charges stemming
from the 1981 rape after his lawyers and state prosecutors
presented genetic evidence that ruled him out as the attacker.


Judge Diane Cannon also ordered that he be released from parole,
and that his name be removed from the state's sex offenders
registry during the brief hearing in Cook County Criminal Court.


Miller is already out of jail, having been paroled in March 2006
after serving more than half of his 45 year sentence.


At a press conference after the proceedings, the beaming 48-year-
old thanked God and his lawyers and said he was looking to his
future.


"I want to get on with my life. Start a life. Have a life," he
said.


Miller expressed no anger, made no recriminations and said he had
moved past bitterness.


"Bitterness profits no one. It definitely doesn't profit me. It's
not part of my character. Sure I went through it - I'm human. But
I overcame that," he said.


Miller was 23 and fresh from a stint in the military when he was
fingered as the assailant in a brazen attack on a 44-year-old
woman in a downtown Chicago garage late one night in September
1981.


The attacker beat, robbed and raped the woman before forcing her
into the trunk of her car.


With the victim still in the trunk, the assailant tried to drive
the vehicle out of the garage, but was forced to flee on foot
when confronted by two parking attendants.


DNA testing was not available when Miller was convicted of the
attack in 1982 and sentenced to 45 years in jail for rape,
robbery, and aggravated kidnapping.


His conviction turned largely on what proved to be flawed
eyewitness testimony, which is at fault in many wrongful
conviction cases according to the Innocence Project, a non-profit
legal clinic that helped to clear his name.


Lawyers for the Innocence Project said Miller's case highlighted
the difficulties facing black defendants, particularly in cases
where a black man is accused of sexually assaulting a white
woman.


They noted that of the 200 people exonerated by DNA evidence, 62
percent of them were black men, which is "disproportionate" given
the high proportion of black males among the US prison
population.


"The factor of racism and racial discrimination in the criminal
justice system is something we can never lose sight of," said
Peter Neufeld, co-founder of the Innocence Project, which
specializes in investigating cases involving alleged miscarriages
of justice where there is DNA evidence.


The latest evidence didn't just clear Jerry Miller, it also
implicated the real assailant, a man called Robert Weeks,
according to attorneys for the Cook County State's Attorney's
Office.


Police identified him by running the DNA from the 1981 rape
through an FBI database. Weeks however cannot be charged with the
1981 rape because the statute of limitations on the crime has
expired.


Weeks went on to assault another woman in April 1982, about seven
months after the attack that landed Miller in jail.

