

Security forces opened fire on pro-Taliban extremists who tried
to storm the house of a rival Islamist leader in a Pakistani
tribal region on Monday, killing six people, officials said.


More than 1,000 members of the hardline Lashkar-i-Islami (Army of
Islam) organisation gathered in Bara, a town bordering
Afghanistan, to demonstrate against the rival Ansar-ul-Islam
(Companions of Islam) group, they said.


Some armed members of the mob then marched towards a nearby
village to attack the house of Ansar-ul-Islam's leader, Pir
Saifur Rehman, a security official told AFP on condition of
anonymity.


"In a bid to disperse the crowd, local tribal police and
paramilitary units opened fire and six people were killed and 10
injured," the official said.


Most of the victims were men in their late teens or early 20s, he
said.


Lashkar-i-Islami spokesman Misri Khan said he knew of five people
who had died on the spot and dozens of others who were wounded.
"The number of dead could go up," he added.


Local tribesmen later said that six bodies were buried in village
graveyards near Bara and that the mourners dispersed peacefully.


Regional security official Arbab Arif said troops opened fire
after the protesters tried to attack a paramilitary camp. He put
the toll at four dead and nine wounded.


Two of the dead were local students who participated in the
protest and the other two killed belonged to Lashkar-i-Islami,
Arif told a news conference in Peshawar.


He said the authorities would take stern action against
Lashkar-i-Islami's leader and supporters.


"We have a complete list of all wanted people and we will take
strict action against them," he said.


He also asked the group to shut down illegal radio stations. The
chief of Lashkar-i-Islami, Mangal Bagh, made a speech overnight
on an illegal FM radio station that he owns urging supporters to
take to the streets on Monday.


Authorities shut down the station last year for allegedly
spreading hatred against the rival group, but Bagh recently
reopened it from a secret location.


The clash comes a day after police fired tear gas to disperse
Lashkar-i-Islami activists who were protesting against the
blowing up of the organisation's headquarters last week.


Officials also said the group's commander had set up a Taliban-
style court in the building.


Lashkar-i-Islami was behind the stoning and shooting to death of
a woman and two men accused of adultery in March.


Last year, 25 people died in battles in Bara between supporters
of the same two groups.

