

US officials sought Monday to defuse Iraqi anger over the
construction of a protective wall around a flash point Sunni
district of Baghdad, saying the project was open for discussion
and only designed to be temporary.


Building of the closure around Baghdad's Adhamiyah neighborhood
has sparked street protests in the city and drew a rebuke from
Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki, although US officials stressed
the wall had the backing of Iraqi security forces.


"Clearly there are aspects of this that the Iraqi government at
this point feels is not productive and we will continue to work
with the Iraqi government on the way forward," said Pentagon
Spokesman Bryan Whitman.


He was speaking after Maliki, on a visit to Egypt, vowed to halt
the wall project.


"I am opposed to the building of the wall and its construction is
going to stop," he said.


Many local residents and politicians from both sides of the
sectarian divide in Iraq oppose the wall, claiming it will harden
Baghdad's sectarian divisions, and on Monday several hundred
people held a noisy street protest in Adhamiyah.


Whitman and other US officials said the wall was being built to
protect Adhamiyah's residents from sectarian attacks and prevent
the Sunni district from being used as a launchpad for violence
against nearby Shiite areas.


But while US and Iraqi officials in Baghdad spoke of extending
the works to cover other Baghdad neighborhoods, spokesmen in
Washington were stressing the temporary nature of the barriers.


"This was always designed to be a kind of temporary measure that
was coordinated with various Iraqi officials to prevent attacks
and to allow people to basically be able to carry out their lives
without fear of attacks," Whitman said.


"The goal here is not permanent barriers, but to try to calm
things down to protect innocent people," added White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


Asked about Maliki's statement, State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack insisted that the Iraqis had been "fully briefed up on
this, at least working through the military side."


"This is not meant as a political statement, it is meant as a
security measure and that we are working closely with the Iraqi
security forces on it," he said.


"These, what I understand to be temporary measures, are meant to
protect the civilian population, it's not meant to divide
people," he said.

