

Actor Sean Connery on Monday threw his weight behind a bid by
Scottish nationalists to become the largest party in the Scottish
parliament and set the region on course to independence from
Britain.


The 76-year-old former James Bond star, who has previously
recorded voice overs for Scottish National Party (SNP) election
broadcasts, appeared on camera for the first time at the launch
of the party's Internet television channel.


The SNP are currently leading the governing Labour Party in polls
for May 3 elections and have vowed to publish plans for a
referendum on independence within the first 100 days of coming to
power, with a vote to be held in 2010.


In the broadcast, Connery, who lives in the Bahamas but says he
would return to an independent Scotland, said: "I know that the
SNP is Scotland's party and it has the right ideas to make
positive things happen for Scotland.


"Together we can open the door to a new era of optimism and
progress for all. There will never be a better opportunity than
now."


Connery used to bankroll the SNP's fight for independence from an
offshore bank account to the tune of about 5,000 pounds (7,300
euros, 10,000 dollars) per month until legislation outlawed the
practice.


Pre-recorded messages from Connery were used in an SNP
telemarketing campaign for the 2005 general election.


The spectre of a split in the 300-year-old union between
Scotland, England and Wales has made the May elections for the
partially-devolved parliament in Edinburgh the most closely
watched and hard-fought in recent years.


Prime Minister Tony Blair said in an interview published in The
Scotsman newspaper last Friday that the election result will
"define the future of Scotland."


Blair's likely successor, finance minister Gordon Brown -- a
Scotsman -- has warned nationalist plans would leave an 11
-billion-pound (16-billion-euro, 22 -billion-dollar) hole in the
Scottish economy.


SNPtv is expected to go out at 9:00 pm (2000 GMT) every night
between now and the end of campaigning.

