

New Zealand strike bowler Shane Bond has one thing on his mind
ahead of Tuesday's World Cup semi-final against Sri Lanka -
Sanath Jayasuriya.


Bond has admitted that it will be his job to dismiss the free-
scoring, veteran opener as early as possible to open up a road
into the Sri Lanka middle order which can be brilliant and
brittle in equal measure.


"If we can get Sanath out early we can probably limit them to 200
runs so it's my job, especially in this game, to get him out and
we've always identified him as a key wicket," said Bond.


The Black Caps paceman has 12 wickets at the World Cup so far at
the miserly average of 12.83; Jayasuriya, a survivor of the 1996
title-winning team, has 403 runs at 50.37.


Something has to give and Bond believes the fast, bouncy Sabina
Park pitch will give him the upper hand.


"The ball might swing and should have more pace and bounce than
the other wickets we've played at, which suits us," Bond told the
Jamaica Gleaner newspaper.


"It's a small ground. We have a long batting line-up, some big
hitters, so it might suit us better and should be an ideal ground
when playing a side like Sri Lanka."


Bond missed New Zealand's last Super Eights match against
Australia in Grenada through illness and he was certainly missed
as the Black Caps slumped to an embarrassing 215-run defeat.


The 31-year-old strike bowler insisted, however, that his
teammates will not be scarred by that loss going into Tuesday's
semi-final against a Sri Lanka side against whom they also lost,
by six wickets, in a group game in St George's two weeks' ago.


"What we're disappointed about is that we are better than that,"
said Bond looking back on the defeat to Australia.


"The moment we beat South Africa (in their penultimate Super
Eights game), we knew we would be playing Sri Lanka and that
became our sole focus. So we didn't do ourselves justice; we
weren't focused.


"But we are here for the game we really want to play and we'll
turn up for this match."


Bond is also keen for New Zealand to finally lift a World Cup
title.


"I think people are hoping we win but aren't speaking it. But if
we did, it would be a major boost for cricket in New Zealand," he
said.


"I think even to make the final would be a huge buzz and an
Australia-New Zealand final would be something special."


Australia, the defending champions, face South Africa in the
second semi-final in St Lucia on Wednesday.

