

President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Monday vowed that Iran would not
give up its "right" to enrich uranium, ahead of key talks between
its chief nuclear negotiator and the EU foreign policy chief.


"The suspension of uranium enrichment is not legal and the
Western demands for this are political," Ahmadinejad told Iran's
Arabic language channel Al-Alam, according to a simultaneous
translation of the live interview.


"In the past Iran did carry out a suspension and we saw what
happened," said Ahmadinejad, pointing to the suspension carried
out under reformist President Mohammad Khatami.


"There is a national desire and this exceeds even that for the
nationalisation of the oil industry," which caused a crisis in
ties with the West in 1953. "Iran and its people will not back
down from this right."


Iran's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani and EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana meet on Wednesday in Turkey for the first
time in over two months in a bid to break the deadlock in the
Iranian nuclear crisis.


However it remains to be seen what the outcome of the talks can
be if Iran still insists it has no intention of halting sensitive
uranium enrichment operations, the key sticking point in the
five-year standoff.


The United States has never ruled out military action to end the
standoff and Ahmadinejad warned in the interview that Iran would
"respond" to any such attack.


"Our doctrine is a defensive one. Iran will not attack any
country in the world. I repeat we will not attack any country in
the world. But if we are attacked we will respond," said
Ahmadinejad.


"If someone insists on something that is against the law then our
people knows how to defend itself," he added.


In a separate interview also broadcast on Monday, Ahmadinejad
told Spanish state television TVE that the EU should adopt an
independent position to that of the United States on Iran's
nuclear programme.


"If the European Union wants to play an appropriate role in
international relations, it should act independently," he said.


"If the European Union wants only to transmit the words of the
United States, we can hear directly what the United States has to
say to us, we don't need Europe to translate for us."

