

British Prime Minister Tony Blair hailed former Russian president
Boris Yeltsin, who died Monday, as a "remarkable" man who had
played a vital role at a crucial time in his country's history.


"It is with sadness that I learned of the death of former
president Yeltsin," Blair said in a statement issued by his
office.


"He was a remarkable man who saw the need for democracy and
economic reform and in defending that reform he played a vital
role at a crucial time in Russia's history."


Speaking in Brussels, Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett expressed her sympathies for Yeltsin's family.


"He was a historic figure in Russia and someone who contributed
to democracy in Europe, in Russia, particularly at the time of
the attempted coup (by hardline Communists in 1991, which Yeltsin
prevented)," she said.


"I am sure it will be very much a landmark in Russian history."


Meanwhile, members of Margaret Thatcher and John Major's
Conservative Party governments -- in power from 1979 to 1997 --
praised Yeltsin for setting post- Communist Russia on the path to
democracy and economic reform.


Former prime minister Major said he developed a friendship with
Yeltsin after speaking to him during the attempted coup.


"He said, I think I have 20 minutes. Go out and tell the world
what's happening and I did," he told Sky News television.


"He was a man of immense courage. It was that occasion that you
had that famous image of him standing on a tank. But I think he
had courage in other ways as well.


"He brought democracy to Russia, it was very embryonic; he was
the first elected president; he sought to extend democracy in
Russia; he had great ambitions to bring a market economy to
Russia; and although it caused tremendous difficulties for him
and Russia, he attempted to introduce one.


"He never lacked courage."


Former finance minister Lord Norman Lamont, who dealt with the
Kremlin leader at meetings of the Group of Seven wealthiest
nations, said: "Yeltsin was a very brave man, a fighter for
democracy, and economic reform.


"Today there is criticism of the privatisations of the early
1990s, but much of it was done under very difficult
circumstances. Yeltsin introduced many reforms which will benefit
the Russian people."


Lamont's colleague Sir Malcolm Rifkind, who was foreign secretary
in the mid- 1990s, said: "He was a larger than life character,
very engaging, very Russian. Very emotional, but also with
tremendous courage.


"He was a seminal figure. His biggest contribution was to ensure
the Communist Party was not able to grab back power after the
attempted coup.


"Yeltsin made a major impact by preventing the coup succeeding,
but he also realised that it was necessary to dismantle the
Soviet Union," Rifkind said.


Britain's former ambassador to Moscow, Sir Roderic Lyne, told
delegates and media gathered at the Russian Economic Forum being
held in London: "He will go down in history as the man who showed
extraordinary personal courage.


"His leadership made a very major contribution to the peace of
Europe and the peace of the world. That's a pretty fine record,"
said Lyne, who was appointed in 1999 after Yeltsin resigned the
Russian presidency.


After hearing the news, some Russian delegates at the forum
appeared shocked and fled outside.

