

The dollar rose slightly in calm trading as investors
consolidated positions from last week and awaited the release of
key US economic indicators later this week.


The euro eased slightly to 1.3575 dollars at 2100 GMT, from
1.3590 dollars in New York late on Friday.


The dollar traded at 118.64 yen, compared with 118.66 previously.


Jon Gencher at BMO Capital Markets said that in the absence of
major economic data, the dollar appeared to be "correcting itself
from the oversold conditions that it has been trading in, with
the technicals suggesting that the correction may not be over."


John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets said fundamental
traders "had little to go off of Monday since the US economic
calendar was clear" but that "traders are looking ahead to a very
busy week for economic indicators."


Tuesday's reports on existing home sales and consumer confidence
"has the potential to put the dollar in motion."


Additional data this week include reports on new home sales and
the first reading on US economic growth for the January-March
quarter.


Analysts said the euro was largely unaffected by the first round
French presidential vote which put rightwinger Nicolas Sarkozy in
pole position heading into a run-off next month against socialist
Segolene Royal.


"The first round does not appear to have had any impact on
euro/dollar, with the currency focusing on other factors," said
Calyon analyst Stuart Bennett.


However, he added: "One factor that could worry the market is the
criticism leveled at the ECB (European Central Bank) by both
Sarkozy and Royal."


Both have suggested that the central bank should focus on jobs
and growth as well as inflation, the analyst noted.


Some analysts said the euro remained set to beat its historic
record of 1.3666 dollars, which was set on December 30, 2004,
after reaching as high as 1.3637 dollars last week.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2095 Swiss francs
after 1.2082 late Friday.


The pound was being traded at 2.004 dollars after 2.0026.

