

Dozens of ships carrying commercial seal hunters have been
rescued from crushing ice off the coast of Canada's eastern
Newfoundland province, authorities said Monday, but most of the
fleet remains adrift or trapped.


Canadian Coast Guard icebreakers and helicopters were dispatched
one week ago to try to help more than 100 ships carrying hundreds
of mariners taking part in Canada's annual seal cull, after
shifting winds and two storms stranded them in a massive ice pack
off shore.


"We've managed to escort 21 vessels (out of danger) toward ice-
free ports, but there are still 43 boats trapped in the ice,"
Coast Guard superintendent Brian Penney said in a teleconference.


The remainder of the fleet managed to wiggle free themselves, but
remain adrift in the Atlantic, waiting on the edges for an ice-
free route to open up to return to port. Many are "critically low
and food and fuel," Penney said.


Sixty-one people have been rescued from damaged buckets, but 300
mariners on some 80 ships are still at sea, he added.


"Mother nature has begun to cooperate with us ... The ice field
is starting to move ... Hopefully by the end of the week, we'll
get the entire fleet out," Penney said.


"The ice will gradually break up, but it is a very, very slow
process."


Canada's controversial Atlantic harp seal hunt was expected to
cull 270,000 animals in April and May.


Fisheries spokeswoman Erika Pittman told AFP on Friday hunters
had killed only 187,500 seals, and would likely not hit their
full quota because of poor ice conditions -- either too much or
too little ice.


Up to 20 percent of the Atlantic herd usually nests on thick ice
floes in the southern Gulf of St. Lawrence, but this year
authorities and animal rights groups found only slush and ice
fragments too small to support a newborn pup.


Ice floes in the northern Gulf and around Newfoundland province
were deemed to be in good condition ahead of the April 4 hunting
season start, but shifting winds trapped boats last week.


Demonstrators in Europe and North America have denounced the
"cruelty" of seal hunting.


But Ottawa maintains the hunt poses no threat to the seal
population, which has ballooned over the past three decades to
almost 5.5 million, despite one million being killed in the past
three years.

