

Nearly six in 10 Poles are against a US plan to base missiles in
Poland as part of a shield Washington says is needed to protect
against attacks from rogue states, according to a poll published
on Monday.


Fifty-seven percent of the 937 people surveyed by the CBOS agency
at the beginning of the month said they do not want Poland to
house the US missiles.


Twenty-five percent of those questioned meanwhile said they were
in favour of the move, while 18 percent said they had no opinion
on the subject, according to the poll published by CBOS on the
eve of a visit to Poland by US Secretary of Defence, Robert
Gates.


Gates will on Tuesday meet with Polish officials to discuss plans
by the Pentagon to station 10 interceptor missiles in the central
European country and a targeting radar in neighbouring Czech
Republic.


The United States has been pushing Warsaw and Prague to agree to
the plan since January.


Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski has said Poland was open
to housing the missiles "but not at any price."


A poll conducted in the Czech Republic showed that 61 percent of
people there are opposed to the idea of playing host to the
system's powerful radar.


Gates was in Moscow on Monday trying to soften Russian opposition
to the plan.


Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov was not swayed
however, telling Gates that the planned system "is a seriously
destabilizing factor that can have a significant influence on
regional and global security."


Gates' visit comes after US Under-Secretary of Defence for
Policy, Eric Edelman, warned in Warsaw last week that Russia
would "come into range first" if Iran were to launch an attack on
the United States.


Head of the Pentagon's Missile Defence Agency, Lieutenant-General
Henry Trey Obering, meanwhile said in the Polish capital last
week that if negotiations with Poland and the Czech Republic got
under way this year, installation of the system could begin "in
the latter part of 2008", and the facility could be operational
by 2013.

