

The United States accused Sudan's government of pursuing a
"deliberate campaign of intimidation" of international
humanitarian workers in Darfur and warned Khartoum that "time is
running out" for it to halt violence there.


Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte, just back from a trip
to Sudan and the region, said Khartoum had to take steps soon to
disarm government-backed Arab militia blamed for most of the
violence that has left more than 200,000 dead in Darfur over the
past four years.


Negroponte reiterated a warning issued by President George W.
Bush last week that Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir's
government would be hit by US sanctions within weeks if he did
not accept the full deployment to Darfur of a UN-led peacekeeping
force of some 20,000 troops.


Beshir recently agreed to allow a first phase deployment of some
3,000 UN troops to boost an ineffective African Union (AU)
peacekeeping force in Darfur.


But he has objected to key elements of the larger operation,
including allowing the UN to share command of the forces with
their AU counterparts.


Bush agreed last week to postpone sanctions, including financial
measures against 29 government-linked companies and several
individuals, to give UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon more time
to try diplomacy.


"But time is running out," Negroponte said on Monday.


"The government of Sudan must disarm the janjaweed militia -- the
Arab militia that we all know could not exist without the
Sudanese government's active support" in order to avoid
sanctions, he said.


Beshir must also drop his objection to the full deployment of a
joint AU-UN force, with a "unified chain of command" and give aid
workers full access to Darfur, he said.


Negroponte said his meeting with the Sudanese leader had failed
to convince him the government was ready to act after months of
stalling on the Darfur peacekeeping issue.


"I came away from that meeting with a strong sense of skepticism
as to whether they would fulfill their commitments," he said.


The number-two US diplomat also cited examples of Sudanese
authorities hindering international aid workers trying to help
some 2.5 million civilians displaced in Darfur, mostly after
their villages were destroyed by the janjaweed.


"Denial of visas, harassment of aid workers and other measures
have created the impression that the government of Sudan is
engaged in a deliberate campaign of intimidation," he said.


Negroponte, who visited camps housing Darfur refugees during his
trip to the region last week, said that


while living conditions in the camps were improving, the number
of displaced persons continued to rise, posing "serious
challenges" to aid workers.


"It's a very precarious and unpredictable situation and it would
not take much for the situation to deteriorate significantly," he
said.

