

The United States said Monday it would try to discourage a major
Austrian oil company from following through on a proposed deal to
help develop an Iranian gas field, noting the venture could draw
US sanctions.


Austria's OMV, the biggest oil and gas group in Central Europe,
announced Saturday that it had signed a memorandum of
understanding with Iran to jointly develop parts of the South
Pars gas field, one of the largest in the world.


It will also set up a liquefaction facility for the Iran
Liquefied Natural Gas project and conclude further supply
agreements for LNG from Iran.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said US officials would
try to dissuade the Austrians from going ahead with the deal at a
time when the international community is locked in a dispute with
Iran over its suspected nuclear weapons program.


"We're going to talk to the Austrian government, talk to the firm
involved and raise with them the idea that perhaps this not the
most appropriate time to be making or committing to making large
investments in the Iranian oil and gas sector," he told
reporters.


The UN Security Council has slapped two sets of sanctions on Iran
over its refusal to suspend a uranium enrichment program many
fear is aimed at providing material to build nuclear weapons.
Iran insists the program is only to make fuel for nuclear power
generation.


The UN sanctions target only Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile
programs and not its oil or gas sectors.


But a 1996 US law, the Iran Libya Sanctions Act, prohibits
foreign firms that invest more than 10 million dollars in Iran's
energy sector from raising capital in US financial markets.


McCormack said it would be premature to consider whether the OMV-
Iran deal could draw US sanctions since the agreement Saturday
was only preliminary and there had been no "actual commitment to
transfer funds or to start moving resources into Iran."


But he added: "Of course, the question always arises when you get
over a certain amount of investment in the Iranian oil and gas
sector, one has to take a look at the Iran Sanctions Act."


At the same time the United States discourages firms from
reaching even preliminary investment agreements with Iran,
McCormack said.


"We question whether or not this is the right time to be handing
the Iranians those kind of -- at the very least, public relations
-- victories," he said.

