

Even traditional respect for the dead could not temper Russians'
deep-seated anger towards Boris Yeltsin as they reacted Monday to
news that their former president had died of heart failure.


On the streets of Moscow, residents railed against the many
perceived failures of Russia's first post-Soviet president, from
the breakup of the USSR, the war in Chechnya and the selloff of
state assets to a handful of oligarchs.


Walking arm-in-arm with his wife, retired doctor Vladimir
reflected the bitterness that many older Russians still feel at
Yeltsin's role in bringing about the collapse of the Soviet Union
in 1991.


"I trusted him and he sold out our country," said Vladimir, 61.
"My father spent 50 years in the (Communist) party and thought
that what he did was for the good of the people. In the end,
everything he did was for a handful of embezzlers."


Looking aghast, Vladimir's wife pulled on his arm.


"Why say such things about a dead person? You must not," she
chastised, reflecting an especially strong tradition in Russia of
not speaking ill of the dead.


But a passerby, overhearing the conversation, also showed no
restraint.


"Yeltsin is dead?" he shouted. "He was a traitor, a traitor! He
sold Russia to the lowest bidder."


For some, Yeltsin's greatest failure was ordering troops into
Chechnya in 1994 to suppress a separatist movement in the
southern Russian region.


Tens of thousands of civilians and thousands of Russian soldiers
died during the 1994-1996 Chechen war, which resulted in an
embarrassing defeat for the Russian military. Russian troops
recaptured Chechnya in 1999 but violence continues to plague the
region.


"I had no respect for him because I served in the army in the
conflict zone and I saw everything," said Gennady Alembayev, a
white-haired, 44-year-old veteran.


"We could have easily put a stop to the war in Chechnya and made
reforms, but the top ranks of the army and the politicians were
making money with this war," he said, standing miserably in front
of a stand selling Russian blinys.


Others were especially critical of Yeltsin's part in the
privatization of state assets after the Soviet collapse -- a
process that left a handful very rich while millions slid deeper
into dire poverty.


"I have fairly negative feelings towards him because despite all
the negative aspects of the USSR, what he did, particularly the
privatizations, he did illegally, even criminally," said Dmitry
Ulianov, 20, a philosophy student at the prestigious Moscow State
University.


Stuck in one of Moscow's infamous traffic jams, Timur, a 24-year-
old analyst with an investment fund, said he had mixed feelings
about Yeltsin.


While the former president was closely linked with Russia's
democratic transformation in the early 1990s, his subsequent
handling of state assets was wrong, Timur said.


"What he did in terms of privatizations -- I'm not saying it
didn't have to be done, but the way it was done was
unacceptable."


Some even rejoiced in Yeltsin's death, including about a dozen
young members of the Eurasian Union, a marginal nationalist
group, who held an impromptu street celebration outside Moscow's
famed Bolshoi Theatre.


"I think all of Russia is celebrating in silence," said one of
them, 29-year-old Pavel Zarifulin. "(Yeltsin) destroyed the
country -- only (Mikhail) Gorbachev did worse."


Not everyone was so unforgiving, but even those who praised
Yeltsin did so with caveats.


"Boris Yeltsin showed us that we could live differently, freely,
and that we must depend on ourselves, but he was isolated by
those around him," said Piotr Loznitsa, a craftsman.


"He never understood his main mistakes: the war in Chechnya, the
poverty of the people and Russia's geopolitical losses," as a
result of the collapse of the Soviet Union, Loznitsa said.

