

A former Rwandan army chief on trial in Belgium for the 1994
killings of Rwandan prime minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana and 10
UN soldiers protecting her said Monday that he had been set up.


"I'm the only one who had the courage to say what I saw. The
others are trying to protect themselves and have left me to pay
for it," Bernard Ntuyahaga, 55, told the court in Brussels.


"I was in the wrong place at the wrong time," he said.


Ntuyahaga, a former major, is accused of overseeing the killings
on April 7, 1994, just hours after Rwandan Hutu President Juvenal
Habyarimana was killed when his plane was downed by unknown
assailants.


That assassination sparked the genocide in which some 800,000
people -- mainly minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus -- were
massacred by Hutu extremists in the central African country.


The Belgian UN troops, who had arrived to protect Uwilingiyimana,
were taken to the "Camp Kigali" barracks where they were killed
by Rwandan troops who allegedly accused them of bringing down
Habyarimana's plane.


The killing of the peacekeepers shocked Belgium and it withdrew
its personnel from Rwanda immediately afterwards.


Ntuyahaga denied going to Uwilingiyimana's house but did say that
he had come across UN peacekeepers "of a white race, in
difficulty" on the morning of April 7.


He said he ordered that they be taken to Camp Kigali "where the
nearest UN post was," but denied that he had spread a rumour the
Belgians were involved in the attack on Habyarimana.


Facing a possible life sentence Ntuyahaga, who handed himself
over to the Belgian authorities in 2004, denies all charges
against him.


It is the third trial to be held in Belgium over the Rwandan
genocide.


In a landmark trial in June 2001, a court sentenced four
Rwandans, including two nuns, to between 12 and 20 years in
prison for their roles in the massacres.


In June 2005, a court sentenced two businessmen from northern
Rwanda to 10 and 12 years in prison after finding them guilty of
war crimes and murder linked to the genocide.

