

China's Ding Junhui was sent crashing out of the World
Championships on Monday as former champion Ronnie O'Sullivan
completed a decisive 10-2 first round win.


The 20-year-old Chinese prodigy was blown away 8-1 by O'Sullivan
in the first session of the best-of-19 clash on Sunday and there
was no miracle for him when the tie resumed on Monday afternoon.


O'Sullivan said that he had not let his friendship with Ding get
in the way of closing out the match.


"You are out there to do a job. As far as I was concerned, the
shop opened up at 2.30 and closed at 5.30," he told BBC Sport.


"There is no place for feeling sorry for anyone, but I am a big
fan of Ding, he is a friend of mine.


"I just hope that match stands him in good stead for next year."


O'Sullivan said the possibility of playing Grand Prix and Welsh
Open winner Neil Robertson (who plays Ryan Day in the first
round) had not crossed his mind yet.


"I didn't really look any further than the game I have just
played. I am pleased with the form I have showed and pleased to
be in the next round," he said.


Despite the stinging defeat Ding said the experience he gained on
his first appearance at the Crucible was invaluable.


"Ronnie is a very good player and he deserved to win," said the
20-year-old. "It was a good match and I picked up some good
experience.


"It's the best arena to play in and I'm still very young so I
should have a lot of chances to play here.


Ding pulled a frame back in the 10th, but twice former champion
O'Sullivan responded with an 87 break in the 11th and then closed
things out in the following frame.


For Ding there was only the experience gained of playing in his
first World Championships up against the most gifted shotmaker in
the game.


Another former world champion Shaun Murphy of England eased
through to the second round as he saw off highly-talented English
teenager Judd Trump 10-6.


The 2005 world champion had some nervous moments against the 17
-year-old, who is ranked 71 in the world in his first season on
the circuit, as Trump came from 5-4 down to lead 6-5.


However he wilted after that as Murphy used his experience to
reel off the next five frames and book himself a place in the
second round.

