

Rafael Nadal has momentum on his side as he crushes all in his
path on clay.


And the Spanish world number two is fully confident of
maintaining his torrid pace at this week's Barcelona Open.


Nadal had little time for celebration after lifting his third
consecutive Monte Carlo Masters title at the weekend over Roger
Federer.


While the Swiss will spend this week in closed-door training with
coach Tony Roche, Nadal has a trophy at home to defend.


As it now stands, the bull-like youngster will play the full clay
season - Barca and Masters Series events in Rome and Hamburg in
the run-up to Roland Garros, where he has won the last two
editions.


The Spaniard feels he has timed his season almost perfectly.


"I started to play well in Dubai (quarter-finals) then very well
in Indian Wells (title), then in Miami (quarters)and again last
week.


"I hope I can keep my game at this level."


Nadal has a bye in the opening round at the Real Club, then
starts on Wednesday against either Italian veteran Davide
Sanguinetti or Belgian Kristof Vliegen.


The massively popular star was due at a book signing later before
his tournament week moves onto court.


Nadal knows that his fitness is everything on the clay. And top
players may find they have been helped by new ATP rules mandating
three-set finals instead of the former five.


The theoretical reduced workload might prevent pullouts from
Nadal and Federer from Hamburg the week after Rome, which
occurred in 2006 after Nadal won a five- set, five-hour marathon
over the Swiss in the Italian final.


"If I'm physically well, I'll play Rome, Hamburg and Roland
Garros," said the 20 -year-old Spaniard.


Nadal will have a lot on the line with each match, with his win
streak on clay now standing at 67 in a row.


The Spaniard said he has been blending more attack into his
already formidable clay game.


"Last week, I tried to play more forward on the court, more
aggressive.


"I've also been working on my backhand. But I wasn't so happy
last week with my serve."


In first-round matches on Monday, Czech Radek Stepanek became the
first seed to fall as the number ten was put out by Romanian
Andrei Pavel 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.


Italian Andreas Seppi, a second-round victim last week of
Federer, felled giant Croatian Ivo Karlovic 6-7 (2/7), 7-5, 6-3
while Vince Spadea became the first American to play a match on
European clay this spring.


The part-time Florida rapper produced a victory over Russian
Teimuraz Gabashvili 6-3, 3-6, 6-1.

