

Boris Yeltsin, the first president of post-Soviet Russia, died on
Monday after suffering a heart attack. He was aged 76.


Interfax news agency quoted "informed medical sources" as saying
that Yeltsin, who had a long history of heart problems, had died
when his heart suddenly stopped.


Mikhail Gorbachev, the last Soviet president, was among the first
to express condolences.


"I offer my deepest condolences to the family of a man on whose
shoulders rested many great deeds for the good of the country and
serious mistakes -- a tragic fate," the former Soviet leader was
quoted by Interfax as saying.


A bear of a man with a penchant for flamboyant gestures, Yeltsin
will perhaps be best remembered around the world for bravely
clambering onto a tank sent into Moscow in 1991 by communist
hardliners attempting a coup in the dying days of the Soviet
Union.


He then introduced historic reforms that dragged a bankrupt
communist economy into the modern age, unleashed political
pluralism and allowed a vibrant, freewheeling media.


During his eight-year rule, Yeltsin's reputation suffered from
frequent reports of heavy drinking, secret hospitalisations after
heart attacks, and launching of the disastrous war in Chechnya.


To this day, an overwhelming majority of Russians blame Yeltsin
for Russia's slide from superpower status to economic basket case
and second fiddle to the United States on the international
stage.


The White House on Monday mourned Yeltsin as "a historic figure"
and offered its condolences to his widow, his relatives, and all
of Russia.


"He was an historic figure during a time of great change and
challenge for Russia. Our condolences go to Mrs Yeltsin, their
family and the people of Russia," said national security
spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


Only the rise of Yeltsin's successor, ex-KGB officer Vladimir
Putin, has reversed those feelings of humiliation.


Yeltsin was born in 1931 near the Ural mountains city of
Yekaterinburg and became a construction engineer before embarking
on a political career in the Communist Party.


In 1991, he was elected the Russian Federation's first president
and in August of the same year he rallied Russian democrats to
defy a junta of generals and other apparatchiks who ousted
Gorbachev in a coup.


The Soviet Union collapsed in December and Yeltsin ushered in the
new Russia.

