

NASA on Monday released the first three-dimension images of the
sun developed from data transmitted by the STEREO twin solar
observatories, sent on a mission to better understand and predict
solar eruptions.


The two-year Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory (STEREO)
mission is the first to view the sun from two separate vantage
points outside Earth's orbit.


The nearly identical satellites act like a pair of human eyes,
each picking up data that is correlated with information from
observatories on the ground and in low-Earth orbit.


The space crafts "are in orbit around the Sun, basically on Earth
orbit and they are moving apart about 45 degrees a year and
starting now to be in position to actually start making
stereographic measurements," said Kaiser, speaking at a press
conference.


"The main purpose of STEREO is to study solar storms. The sun has
been doing solar storms for billions of years, with nobody really
caring about until recently."


Electromagnetic storms from the sun can affect "our power system
on the ground, and present a hazard to astronauts," said Kaiser.


NASA scientists want to be able to predict the effect of solar
eruptions on the earth as efficiently as meteorologists make
forecasts based on weather data, Kaiser said.


The space crafts, each about the size of a golf cart and weighing
some 1,364 pounds (620 kilograms), were launched on their mission
in October. They are providing the first three-dimension images
of the sun and its corona.


Scientists of four European countries are participating in the
mission: Belgium, Britain, France and Germany.


The STEREO mission has an unprecedented "broadside" view of the
entire relationship between the sun and Earth, some 93 million
miles (150 million kilometers) apart.


Scientists hope the mission will glean insight into solar
activities such as coronal mass ejections (CMEs), the most
violent explosions in the solar system.


When aimed at Earth, these billion-tonne eruptions of the sun's
corona spew intense radiation, disrupting the Earth's environment
and endangering astronauts and scientific spacecraft.


Information on the CMEs would improve planning for space missions
as well as over-the-pole flights, satellite communications and
video transmissions, National Aeronautics and Space
Administration officials said.

