

South Africa have reasons to believe that they deserve better
than just two semi-final finishes in the World Cup since their
maiden appearance in 1992.


They are now in the semi-finals for the third time, with skipper
Graeme Smith hoping to do better than his predecessors Kepler
Wessels and Hansie Cronje who were unlucky not to lead their
sides into the final.


Misfortune has become synonymous with South Africa ever since
they were asked to score an absurd 21 off just one delivery in
the 1992 semi-final against England in a rain-hit match in
Sydney.


They were also involved in a pair of tied matches in 1999 and
2003, which eventually led to their ouster before the final.


Wessels's South Africans did remarkably well when they qualified
for the semi- finals on their first Cup appearance after more
than two decades of isolation due to apartheid.


The tournament was jointly hosted by Australia and New Zealand
and had all the trappings of a modern event -- coloured clothing,
floodlights, white balls and black sightscreens.


But Wessels's team were not amused because it also had a
ridiculous 'rain rule'.


Rain interrupted South Africa's chase when they required 22 to
win off 13 balls. The target was revised to 21 off just one ball
when the game resumed.


In 1996 they realised that talent alone was not enough to win an
important match and that a team needed both luck and pluck to
claim the coveted prize.


Cronje was the captain of a squad of skilful cricketers when the
Cup arrived in the sub-continent for the second time in 1996 and
his team were strong favourites till they ran into Brian Lara.


South Africa had looked menacing before their campaign ended
suddenly at Karachi in the quarter-final against the West Indies,
courtesy of Lara's brilliance.


The left-hander smashed a blistering century as the West Indies
set a challenging 265-run target off 50 overs before restricting
South Africa to 245 to win a close match.


They were eliminated in 1999 without losing their semi-final
which finished in a tie with Australia. They were to bow out on
inferior net run-rate.


Australia had advanced to the Super Six without a point and one
more defeat could have sent them back home.


It nearly came in their last Super Six match against South Africa
when  chasing a stiff 272-run target at Headingley, but luck was
with them.


Australia captain Steve Waugh was on 56 when he offered a simple
catch to South African century-maker Herschelle Gibbs, who held
the ball before dropping it in premature celebrations.


Waugh needed just that slice of fortune to steer his team to a
crucial win with an unbeaten century.


South Africa had lost an opportunity to knock Australia out of
the competition. Instead, they themselves went out of the
tournament after the tied semi-final against the same opposition
at Edgbaston.


They required nine to win off the last over, with Lance Klusener
at the crease. It soon became one to win off the last four balls
after Klusener smashed paceman Damien Fleming for two successive
fours.


No run came off the third ball after Waugh had set a single-
saving field. Klusener connected the fourth and charged for a
single, but Allan Donald apparently did not hear the call.


Donald responded late, dropped his bat on the way and was yards
out of the crease when wicket-keeper Adam Gilchrist broke the
stumps and South African hearts.


It was a miscalculation in a rain-hit match against Sri Lanka
that led to South Africa's elimination before the Super Six stage
at home in 2003.


When South African wicket-keeper Mark Boucher hit the penultimate
ball of what turned out to be the final over for a six to level
the scores against Sri Lanka he thought the job had been
completed.


But his team still needed one more run to win.


Skipper Shaun Pollock was seen in the Durban dressing room with
his head in his hands completely inconsolable.


He resigned paving the way for Smith to try his luck instead.

