

A Briton held in Zimbabwe after allegedly masterminding a failed
coup in Equatorial Guinea, which wants him extradited, has
applied for permission to stay while undergoing surgery, a court
heard Monday.


In a letter submitted to a Harare magistrate who is considering
the request to extradite Simon Mann, the Briton's lawyer said his
client was very sick and medical tests confirmed he was suffering
from a hernia.


"We must point out that our client suffers from a further medical
problem in that he needs a hip replacement," Jonathan Samkange
said.


"After the operation our client will need a post-operation period
to recuperate in hospital until such a time when the wounds have
fully healed and he has recovered for him to return to Chikurubi
Maximum prison."


Mann and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at
Harare international airport in March 2004.


They were said to have been stopping off to pick up weapons en
route to Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick
du Toit, who was himself arrested and then sentenced to 34 years
in prison in Malabo.


Mann said he and his co-accused where in transit to the
Democratic Republic of Congo when they were arrested.


Samkange said his clients' family wanted to have him treated
privately and would pay for all expenses "which will include an
ambulance to ferry him from Chikurubi Maximum Prision."


Mann, founder of the now-defunct mercenary outfit Executive
Outcomes, was handed a seven-year term for the purchase of
weapons that prosecutors said were to be used to topple President
Obiang Nguema, Equatorial Guinea's ruler since 1979. The sentence
was later cut to four years and he is due to be freed next month.


The court also heard a former African Union human rights
commissioner who said Mann should not be extradited to Malabo due
to its poor human rights record.


"Based on the information I have in my opinion Zimbabwe will be
precluded from extraditing Simon Mann to Equatorial Guinea both
under international law, and human rights law," Andrew Chigovera
said.


The hearing continues on Thursday.

