

Bomb blasts killed six Afghan intelligence agents and two
policemen on Monday, while the decapitated body of another agent
was discovered in a killing claimed by the Taliban.


The six agents died in the eastern province of Laghman where a
similar blast on Sunday killed two other intelligence operatives,
a bodyguard and a driver. The province is about 120 kilometres
(75 miles) from Kabul.


"Six intelligence officers were killed in the blast and another
four were wounded," provincial police chief General Asil
Totakhail told AFP.


Totakhail blamed the attack on the "enemies of Afghanistan," a
term used by authorities to refer to fighters for the Taliban
movement driven from government in 2001 in an invasion by a US-
led coalition.


Hours earlier a roadside bomb struck a police patrol in the
southeastern province of Zabul, killing two policemen and
wounding five, said Mohammad Wazir, chief of the district of
Shamulzayi on the border with Pakistan.


A spokesman for the Taliban, Yousuf Ahmadi, said the extremist
movement had carried out the attack and was also behind the
beheading of an intelligence agent from the city of Ghazni, about
150 kilometres southwest of the capital.


The agent was picked up from his home on Sunday for a dinner,
Ghazni province deputy police chief Mohammad Zaman said. "This
morning his decapitated body and head were found," he said.


In the neighbouring province of Uruzgan, police said they had
surrounded a reported meeting of about 200 Taliban that was
believed to include regional leaders of the movement.


"There has been no fighting so far but they are totally
surrounded," provincial police chief General Mohammad Qasim said.


The coalition announced meanwhile that a US Air Force strike had
killed a "significant regional Taliban leader" in Laghman on
Saturday.


It said the man, identified as Fateh Gul Haqparast, had extensive
ties to the radical militant network of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as
well as the Taliban.


Hekmatyar's faction carries out attacks alongside the Taliban,
who are supported by foreign fighters and elements in Pakistan
which is confronting its own spike in attacks by extremists.


Well over 4,000 people were killed in insurgency-linked unrest in
Afghanistan last year, more than four times the 2005 toll. Most
of the violence was in the south and east, areas bordering
Pakistan.


On Monday the extremist movement issued a new statement said to
be from its fugitive leader, Mullah Mohammad Omar, that called on
"Taliban and Muslim Afghan to strengthen their attacks on the
government and foreign soldiers."


"Those who are or were with Taliban and are inactive (should)
become active and start their activity and rescue their country
from the invasion," Ahmadi told AFP, reading from a statement
similar to others said to be from the group.


There has been a surge in roadside blasts and suicide attacks in
the past weeks as part of the Taliban's campaign against the
Western-backed government.


The latest suicide attack was in the southeastern city of Khost
on Sunday. The toll from that strike reached 10 after two more
victims died in hospital, officials said Monday.

