

WTO director general Pascal Lamy said Monday he sees a "window of
opportunity" for a global pact on trade liberalization that will
close in the coming weeks if no progress is made.


Lamy, speaking in Washington, said many countries around the
world are waiting for a signal from Washington to advance the
talks, which have been stalled for months amid dispute on farm
subsidies.


Some analysts have argued the World Trade Organization members
are in a race against time to conclude a deal before June 30 when
US President George W. Bush's special powers under so called
Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) expire.


Lamy said that whether or not the US Congress renews this
authority is an internal matter but that "many US trade partners
consider that no movement on TPA means that the US has lost faith
in the Doha round."


In the interim, he added, "many WTO members believe we have a
window of opportunity which will close unless there is clear
progress over the coming weeks."


Lamy noted that some of the major players in the talks "are
somewhat paralyzed by fear that any move in the negotiation by
any one of them will be pocketed by the others and will not lead
to reciprocal moves."


Earlier this month in Delhi, ministers from the United States,
the European Union, India, Brazil, Australia and Japan  -- known
as the G-6 -- said they believed "that by intensifying our work,
we can reach convergence and thus contribute to concluding the
round by the end of 2007."


But Lamy on Monday said that "if WTO members do not energize the
negotiations soon ... governments will be forced to confront the
unpleasant reality of failure."


The Doha Round, launched in 2001 in the Qatari capital, has
repeatedly missed deadlines as wealthy and developing nations
have struggled to strike a deal on opening up trade in
agricultural, industrial goods and services.


The Delhi meeting marked the first time the leading trade powers
had assembled for talks since the Doha discussions collapsed last
July.

