

President Olusegun Obasanjo on Monday admitted Nigeria's
elections had been far from perfect but called on the country to
do better next time.


In a surprise live address to the nation, held minutes before the
official proclamation of results, he lamented voting delays,
violence and fraud in state, presidential and legislative
elections held in two stages over the past week.


"It is my fervent wish that Nigerians will consider this
experience as a necessary step in our journey as a people towards
consolidating our democracy," he said.


"After all, in another four years, there will be an opportunity
for a fresh contest which I hope will take care of ballot paper
and ballot box malpractices."


As the first election enabling a peaceful transition from one
civilian to another since Nigeria's independence in 1960, the
poll had been held up as a showcase of the country's democratic
progress.


But the mayhem and violence -- which left 200 people dead
according to EU observers -- has brought sharp condemnation from
foreign observers and opposition parties alike, some calling for
a re-run of the polls.


Urging Nigerian voters and parties to take their complaints to
the courts, Obasanjo called on the electoral commission and the
judiciary to put wrongs right within the next five weeks before
he steps down on May 29.


Umaru Yar'Adua, the incumbent's favourite to take over as
president, on Monday was declared winner of the poll with 24.6
million votes, four times that of his nearest rival, according to
the national election commission (INEC).


"Our elections could not have been said to have been perfect,"
Obasanjo said.


He cited in example the late arrival of ballots, which deprived
some of the right to vote; violence, including a bomb attack
against the electoral commission headquarters; and electoral
fraud, including ballot box snatching.


"As our judiciary has shown, many of the observed lapses in the
elections are not incapable of correction, and it is our hope
that political parties, contestants and INEC will make available
all information and evidence to enable the judiciary perform its
functions," he said.


"That way, mistakes and accidents can be corrected."


He also said 30 policemen and more than 35 civilians had died in
election violence.


Obasanjo, a former military leader who handed power over to
civilians in 1979 before winning two presidential elections in
1999 and 2003, expressed disappointment at parties that have
employed thugs and violence.


"Nigeria must show example to the rest of Africa and the world
that we are capable of choosing our leaders peacefully and
democratically," he said.


"We all have an abiding duty to our collective posterity to
ensure that we do nothing to threaten our nation's corporate
existence and survival on the altar of political expediency."

