

Asian students at Virginia Tech university, where Korean-born Cho
Seung-Hui shot dead 32, said Monday they felt no rebuke or blame
from other students in the wake of the massacre.


"I think some Americans may think Asians are not good. But people
at VT understand that Cho was mentally ill," said Boonta
Chutvirasakul, and undergraduate from Bangkok, Thailand.


"There has not been any negative treatment of anyone," said Jing
Wang, a computer science student originally from Xian, China who
now lives in Sheldon, Connecticut.


"Twenty years ago maybe there would have been something, but not
now," he said.


Out of some 26,000 full time undergraduate and graduate students,
the state-run university counts some 1,800 Asians and Asian-
Americans in its student body.


Many said they got worried when the media reported shortly after
the shooting that the killer was Asian, and then one outlet
reported incorrectly that the killer was Chinese.


Cho, who was born in South Korea but grew up in the Washington
suburb of Centreville, Virginia, is one of a few hundred Koreans
at the university -- most of whom fled the campus after the
shooting out of fear.


Few of his fellow students, including the Korean community, knew
anything about the angry loner who earlier this year bought two
handguns and on April 16 unleased a rampage killing 27 students
and five faculty before committing suicide.


Not only Asians saw cause for concern. One professor who would
not be named said last week that he was concerned how many
undergraduate students would react to their Asian teaching
assistants -- graduate students who take on lecturer roles --
when classes reopened Monday.


Rafael Jose Gonzales, a US citizen born in the Philippines and a
second-year student at the university, said he worried at first
that people might react badly against Asians at the rural
southwestern Virginia college.


But he said that there was no sign of recriminations across the
campus, and rejected the idea that there was anything
specifically "Asian" about the tragedy, whatever the identity of
the shooter.


"This is a reflection of the hardships that certain people go
through. It just happened that he was Korean," he said.


But Asian students have gone out of their way to demonstrate they
too felt the loss and that their sympathies were with the
families of the dead, which included an Indonesian graduate
student.


On Friday the 600-strong association of students from China laid
out white sheets on the drillfield near the campus memorial to
the dead and invited their members and anyone else to pen their
condolences and thoughts on it.


"We feel the need to show our sympathy and our sadness," said Xue
Hong, president of the association and a doctorate candidate in
economics.


"Some Asian people are worried about their safety. But most
people treat this tragedy as individual behavior."


"There is always someone who will see it racial," he added
though.


Mental health professionals said in a counseling session days
after the massacre that they worried of anger directed at Asian
students from people in the greater Blacksburg community without
direct links to the university.


That sentiment was reflected by a local Bangkok-born
restaurateur, Thanadoul Khunngam.


"I don't want people to think all Asians are bad," he said.

