

The United States has formally asked Iran about reports that a
retired FBI agent who disappeared during a visit to an Iranian
resort early last month has been secretly detained by agents of
the Islamic Republic, a senior official said Monday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said a new note
concerning the disappearance of Robert Levinson was sent to Iran
via Swiss intermediaries over the weekend -- the fifth US request
for information on the missing American.


Iran has officially denied any knowledge of Levinson, but US
officials remain dubious, saying they have provided Iranian
authorities with the American's flight number and time of arrival
on the Iranian resort island of Kish -- a free trade area
Americans can visit without a visa.


Whereas US officials had previously declined to comment on press
reports that Levinson was arrested, possibly as a hostage to
obtain the release of five Iranians held by US forces in Iraq,
McCormack said the latest message specifically asked Iran to
investigate the possibility.


"There have been a lot of press reports suggesting he may have
been arrested by various factions of the Iranian security
apparatus," McCormack told reporters.


"At this point, I can't validate those press reports, but
certainly they raise questions in our mind about where exactly is
Mr. Levinson," he said.


"So we've gone back to the Iranian government ... and asked them
once again to do every possible check they can with their
security forces, with all their departments and provide us the
information where he is," he said.


"We've also asked a couple of European government last week to go
in and essentially knock on doors and see if they can get any
information about his whereabouts," he said.


Levinson, who retired from the FBI in the late 1990s, has been
working as a private consultant and was reportedly visiting Kish
to do research for a documentary film project.


News of Levinson's disappearance emerged just after an Iranian
security force captured 15 British Navy and Marine personnel
operating in Gulf waters.


It was not immediately clear which Iranian force seized the 15,
who were later released, and McCormack suggested there could be
some similar confusion within Iran concerning Levinson.


"It might have been the right hand not knowing what the left hand
was doing, so I certainly can't discount at this point the idea
that there may be some part of the Iranian government that is
acting without the knowledge of the other part," he said.


On Sunday, Iranian Intelligence Minister Gholam Hossein Mohseni
Ejeie told a local news agency that the government was "following
up" on the US requests for information.


"So far there have been no clues over the arrest or presence of
the FBI agent in Iran," he said. "But in line with the notes
submitted to Iran, we are examining the issue."


The United States and Iran, arch foes for a quarter of a century,
have no diplomatic relations and any contacts are carried out
through the Swiss embassy in Tehran, which represents US
interests.


Adding to tensions between the two, US forces have been holding
five Iranians detained during a raid in northern Iraq in January
on suspicion of aiding anti- US insurgents in the country.


Iran has protested those detentions and has also suggested
Western spy agencies kidnapped a former Iranian general, Ali Reza
Asghari, who disappeared in February during a trip to Istanbul.


Ejeie denied that Levinson case was linked to Asghari.

