

Boris Yeltsin, who died Monday at the age of 76, oversaw the
transformation of Russia out of all recognition under his
presidency.


Born into a peasant family in February 1931 in the region of
Sverdlovsk, in the Urals, Yeltsin was trained as an engineer and
embarked on a political career in 1968, becoming head of the
local communist party.


Here are key dates in that career:


1985


Dec 24: Promoted by Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Yeltsin is
named first secretary of the Moscow Communist party.


1986


February: Yeltsin is appointed candidate member of the Politburo
and joins the presidium of the supreme soviet (parliament) of the
Soviet Union.


1987


November 11: Yeltsin is dismissed from his post as Moscow first
secretary after criticising Gorbachev.


1988


February 17: Yeltsin is dismissed as candidate member of the
Politburo and loses ministerial rank the following May.


1989


March 26: Yeltsin returns to the political trail, winning a seat
in the Soviet parliament with 89.4 percent of the vote and
becoming effective head of the "democratic opposition."


1990


June 12: Yeltsin is elected speaker of parliament.


July 12: Yeltsin resigns from the Communist party during its 28th
Congress.


1991


June 12: Yeltsin is elected president of the Russian Federation
with 57.4 percent of the popular vote.


August: After an attempted hardline coup against Gorbachev,
Yeltsin heads the popular resistance from parliament
headquarters.


November 6: Yeltsin decrees the dissolution of the Communist
party on Russian territory.


December 8: Yeltsin and the presidents of Ukraine and Belarus
proclaim the dissolution of the Soviet Union.


1992


January: Following the resignation of Gorbachev, Yeltsin launches
an ambitious programme of market reforms, removing price controls
and privatising key sectors of the economy.


1993


September 21: Yeltsin dissolves the Russian parliament
unconstitutionally, triggering a rebellion by opposition
deputies.


October 3-4: Yeltsin orders tanks to shell the parliament
building where the deputies have taken refuge.


December 12: A referendum approves a new Russian constitution.
Elections are held for a new parliament.


1994


December 11: Yeltsin orders Russian troops into the separatist
southern republic of Chechnya, triggering an eighteen-month
conflict that will leave tens of thousands of dead.


1995


July, October: Yeltsin suffers two heart attacks, requiring
lengthy absences from the Kremlin.


1996


June 27: Days before the second round of presidential elections,
Yeltsin suffers another heart attack. Kremlin spokesmen say only
that he has "lost his voice."


July 3: Yeltsin is reelected president with 53.8 percent of the
vote.


November 5: Yeltsin undergoes a quintuple heart bypass operation
lasting seven hours.


1997


May 27: Yeltsin travels to Paris to sign a treaty with NATO
countries in which Russia reluctantly accepts the Atlantic
alliance's enlargement to the east.


October 9: Yeltsin announces that he will not seek another
mandate.


1998


July 17: A visibly flagging Yeltsin attends ceremonies marking
the reburial of Nicholas II, the last Russian tsar, and his
family in Saint Petersburg.


August: Russia plunges into financial crisis following a massive
de facto devaluation of the ruble. Yeltsin plumbs new depths of
unpopularity as living standards plummet further and new
allegations of corruption at official levels surface.


1999


August 9: Yeltsin appoints the head of the security services,
Vladimir Putin, as prime minister, saying he sees Putin as his
preferred successor.


September 23: Russian warplanes bomb the Chechen capital Grozny
for the first time since the end of the first Chechen conflict in
1996, triggering a new war.


December 31: Yeltsin resigns ahead of the end of his presidential
term.

