

International Cycling Union (UCI) president Pat McQuaid has
pleaded with Spanish authorities to help him get to the bottom of
the botched Operation Puerto investigation.


The Irishman on Monday sent a letter to Spanish Secretary of
State for Sport Jaime Lissavetzki asking him to help bring the
matter to a conclusion.


Italian ace Ivan Basso and Germany's Jan Ullrich were among
dozens of cyclists implicated in 'Operation Puerto', which
uncovered an alleged blood doping and doping network run by a
doctor, Eufemiano Fuentes, in Spain.


Both riders were among over a dozen banned from racing last
year's Tour de France, which also ended in controversy when
American winner Floyd Landis tested positive for testosterone on
stage 17.


However, Spanish legal authorities later closed their
investigation into the affair without any charges being brought
against any of the suspected dope- cheats.


"What is still missing is agreement and action from the Spanish
authorities to proceed with the identification of the blood that
is in their possession or, at least, to make partial samples
available for identification," said McQuaid in his letter.


"The UCI now makes an urgent appeal to you (Lissavetzki) to
ensure that the competent authorities do whatever is in their
jurisdiction to have the Puerto affair examined down to the last
detail.


"We rely on such action from you to help the sporting authorities
deal properly with their disciplinary responsibility in the fight
against doping."


The UCI's bid to get to the bottom of the affair was boosted
recently when a DNA test matched blood found in Fuentes' Madrid
laboratory with Ullrich, who has claimed he is innocent and since
retired from the sport.


It proved a turning point for Tour de France chief Christian
Prudhomme, who is determined to avoid the kind of controversy
which deflated 2006's edition before it had even started.


The letter was also copied to International Olympic Committee
president Jacques Rogge and World Anti-Doping Agency director
general David Howman.

