

Legislators in Mexico City were expected on Tuesday to pass
legislation legalizing abortion in the megalopolis despite
protests from the influential Roman Catholic Church and
conservative politicians.


The new law would make the Mexican capital one of the rare areas
in socially conservative Latin America where abortion is not
legally restricted to cases where the woman has been raped or
faces health risks.


Only Cuba, Guyana and Puerto Rico have no restrictions on
abortion in the first three months of pregnancy.


There was little doubt the new bill would be passed on Tuesday
when it goes to a vote in the Mexico City legislative assembly,
which is dominated by the leftist PRD, the party of the mayor,
who has defied threats of violence.


Mexico City Mayor Marcelo Ebrard has ordered the deployment of
riot police around the legislative buildings. "I will not be
intimidated," he said.


The authors of the draft legislation say at least 1,500 women
have died in Mexico over the past decade as the result of
abortions often performed in clandestine, unhygienic backstreet
facilities.


Although Mexico City has allowed rape victims to get abortions
since 1931, it was just seven years ago that the law was expanded
to include cases where a woman's health was at risk or the fetus
showed signs of severe birth defects.


About 100,000 women undergo abortion every year in Mexico,
according to official figures, though some non-governmental
organizations say the figure is as high as 500,000.


A number of legislators said they received death threats for
supporting the law, and some Roman Catholic Church officials have
threatened to excommunicate anyone voting in favor of the bill.


The Catholic bishop of the state of Chiapas compared the
legislators who drafted the text with Adolf Hitler, though he
also condemned the death threats issued against them.


The conservative National Action Party (PAN) of President Felipe
Calderon is the only party in the legislative assembly to oppose
the bill, and has suggested adoption as an alternative to
abortion.


An opinion poll by the Reforma daily showed 53 percent of
residents of the Mexican capital favored legalization of
abortion, with 42 percent against, but another newspaper, El
Universal, put the figures at 44 percent in favor to 48 percent
against the bill.


The legislation would not affect other areas of Mexico, where
abortion remains generally illegal.

