

Former Russian president Boris Yeltsin, who died Monday of a
heart attack, was plagued by health problems throughout his
career.


Critics said his lifestyle, particularly heavy drinking, was to
blame, with serious consequences for Russian politics.


Here is a chronology of his most serious health incidents:


1987


Nov: Hospitalised for several weeks with heart problems shortly
after his dismissal from the Soviet Communist Party Politburo by
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev.


1990


March: Heart problems during a Communist Party Central Committee
meeting just after being elected a member of parliament.


April: Operation in Barcelona for a slipped disc.


1991


Sept 18: Minor heart problems after successfully defying a coup
attempt against Gorbachev.


1994


Feb: In the midst of the Bosnian crisis, a "cold" kept him away
from Moscow for two weeks.


Sept: Yeltsin failed to get off the plane during a stopover in
Ireland, keeping the Irish prime minister waiting on the tarmac.
Russian officials said he had "forgotten" to wake up. Former
bodyguard Alexander Korzhakov said he  had suffered more heart
trouble.


Dec: Yeltsin admitted to hospital for 10 days for what was
officially described as a nose operation, as Russian troops
poured into Chechnya.


1995


July 10: Hospitalised for two weeks after a mild heart attack.


Oct 26: Hospitalised for a month with more circulatory and heart
problems.


1996


June 27: Yeltsin cancelled campaigning ahead of the second round
of presidential elections, officially due to "loss of voice" and
fatigue. Later it emerged that he had suffered another heart
attack.


Nov 5: Seven hour quintuple coronary bypass operation.


1997


Jan 8: Hospitalised for double pneumonia until January 20.


Dec 10: Admitted to hospital for two weeks with a viral
infection.


1998


March 13: The Kremlin said he was suffering from respiratory
problems.


Oct 11-12: Yeltsin stumbled and appeared lost on a trip to
Central Asia which was aborted a day early, with aides blaming
bronchitis.


Oct 26: Kremlin announced Yeltsin could not attend EU-Russia
summit in Austria because of extreme fatigue.


Nov 12: Yeltsin skipped a banquet for visiting Japanese Prime
Minister Keizo Obuchi. His wife said he found it difficult coping
with the Moscow climate.


Nov 23: Hospitalised with pneumonia.


1999


Jan 17: Rushed to hospital with bleeding ulcer.


2001


Jan 30: Hospitalised for more than a month, including his 70th
birthday, with pneumonia.


2005


Sept 7: Broke his hip in a fall during holidays in Sardinia.

