

Skipper Graeme Smith says South Africa's heart-breaking loss to
Australia in the 1999 World Cup is history as his team gear up to
face the defending champions in Wednesday's semi-finals.


South Africa bowed out of the tournament eight years ago after
their epic semi- final ended in a tie against Steve Waugh's
Australians, who advanced to the final on better net run-rate in
the Super Six.


"The 1999 game was a game in history. It doesn't get mentioned
much within the set-up," Smith said.


"Obviously, it was disappointing for the country as we finished
on the losing side, but it's a game that you learn from. It's a
separate game on Wednesday and it's a tough game. What's happened
before means nothing."


Australia are the only unbeaten team in the tournament and look
poised to complete a hat-trick, having won the world title in
1999 and 2003.


Smith said his side, who have already lost to the Australians in
a group game in this tournament, would have to raise their
performance.


"They've played good cricket throughout the World Cup and I don't
think we're expecting them to play a bad game," he said.


"That's not how we're going into this game. We're hoping to beat
the best Australian team and that's the way we are preparing,
mentally preparing, and we're putting things into play."


The South African captain said his team were confident of taking
on a formidable Australia, especially after posting an emphatic
nine-wicket victory over England in a Super Eights match in
Barbados.


"Hopefully, we can make our luck on Wednesday. We certainly can
create it by playing good cricket. We have the opportunity to win
the game and move into the final," he said.


"The guys are training well and are in good spirits. We're
confident as the game against England gave us a big boost. We're
looking forward to the game. Hopefully, we peak at the right
time."


Smith also backed top-order batsman Jacques Kallis, who came
under fire for his slow batting during his team's 83-run defeat
against Australia in St Kitts last month.


"Me feeling about Jacques is that he's a world-class player and a
team player. He's won many games for South Africa. I think over
the last couple of months and maybe years he's had a look at his
one-day game," he said.


"Maybe with the game changing, he's had to reassess a few things,
but he's an integral part of our team and I'm sure he's going to
play a massive role in the semi-final.


The South Africa skipper said Herschelle Gibbs also could play a
big role.


"I think Herschelle is one guy that Australia will fear. He's
unpredictable, has shots all around the wicket and he's played
well throughout the tournament. He looks very determined going,"
he said.


"You talk about 1999 and how many guys get a second chance. He's
looking forward to the opportunity. I really believe Herschelle
is up there for Wednesday."


Gibbs has bitter memories of the 1999 edition when he dropped
Australia skipper Steve Waugh at a crucial stage in a Super Six
game. He held the ball but let it slip in premature celebrations.


Waugh went on to score a century and win the game for his side.


Smith conceded his bowlers needed to contain the rampaging
Australian top-order batsmen, especially opener Matthew Hayden
who is the tournament's leading scorer with 580 runs in nine
matches with three centuries.


"Certainly, it (the top order) has been one of their strengths.
Their top four have got off to good starts. Hayden up front has
been phenomenal throughout the tournament," he said.


"We'll look at those things and come with a game plan of how we
can get into their middle order as quick as we can. But even if
they do come off, they are quality players and you've got to have
a game plan to cope with them.

