

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene is backing his side's
greater experience to see them through their World Cup semi-final
against New Zealand.


The teams meet Tuesday here at Sabina Park in the opening last
four match of the first World Cup ever staged in the Caribbean,
the victors facing the winners of Wednesday's match between
champions Australia and South Africa in Saturday's final in
Barbados.


Sri Lanka are set to field a team featuring three survivors from
the side that won the 1996 World Cup - dynamic opening batsman
Sanath Jayasuriya, left-arm quick Chaminda Vaas and exceptional
off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan.


"Our guys have played more games, big games, tougher games - so
maybe our extra experience will help," said Jayawardene here on
Monday.


"That's probably one advantage we can have over the New
Zealanders."


Black Caps skipper Stephen Fleming has repeatedly spoken about
trying to target Sri Lanka's perceived lack of batting depth.


But Jayawardene said this was not an issue as far as he was
concerned, highlighting the different make-up of his team.


"New Zealand have a lot of depth in their batting - everybody
knows that," said the captain.


"But we have a different combination. We have genuine bowlers in
our line-up; we rely on our top seven to score the runs. The top
seven are there to bat the 50 overs. That's how we go about our
game."


Jayawardene added that unorthodox fast bowler Lasith Malinga,
whose slinsghot action unsettled the Black Caps in New Zealand
earlier this year, was fit after missing the last three games
with ankle ligament damage.


And he added that Malinga's fellow quick Dilhara Fernando, also
troubled by a recent ankle problem, was fit to play as well.


"Lasith is 100 percent available for selection. So is Dilhara."


Sri Lanka controversially rested Vaas and Muralitharan from their
penultimate Super Eights match, a seven-wicket defeat by
Australia last Monday in Grenada.


But top-order batsman Jayawardene remained unrepentant about the
move.


"The whole point of resting those guys was to keep them fresh.
They are not getting any younger - and in a big tournament like
this you need to keep your best players fresh.


"That was part of the plan, and we think it has worked. We had to
be careful with Malinga, because he was injured. This is the big
one for us now, and everybody is fit."


New Zealand are set to have Shane Bond back in their side after
the fast bowler missed Friday's 215-run thrashing by Australia
through illness.


And Jayawardene said Bond and left-arm spinner Daniel Vettori
were the key figures in New Zealand's attack.


"Shane is their strike bowler up front, and then they have Daniel
as well - so those are the people we must concentrate on.


"If Shane is on the mark we will have to respect him; if not we
could take him on."

