

Six out of 10 Poles oppose a US plan to base missiles in Poland
as part of a shield Washington says is needed to protect against
attacks from rogue states, according to a poll published on
Monday.


Fifty-seven percent of the 937 people surveyed by the CBOS agency
at the beginning of the month opposed the missiles, while 25
percent were in favour and 18 percent had no opinion.


The poll was published on the eve of a visit to Poland by US
Secretary of Defence Robert Gates, who on Tuesday was due to
discuss the plans with Polish officials.


Polish Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski has said Poland was open
to housing the missiles "but not at any price."


The United States also wants a targeting radar in the
neighbouring Czech Republic as part of the shield. But a poll
conducted there showed that 61 percent of Czechs were opposed.


Gates was in Moscow on Monday trying to soften Russian opposition
to the plan.


Russian Defense Minister Anatoly Serdyukov was not swayed
however, telling Gates that the planned system "is a seriously
destabilizing factor that can have a significant influence on
regional and global security."


Gates's visit is the latest in a round of high-level visits to
Poland by US officials, trying to convince Warsaw to begin formal
talks on housing the interceptor missiles.


Last week, the head of the Pentagon's Missile Defence Agency,
Lieutenant-General Henry Trey Obering, said if negotiations with
Poland and the Czech Republic got under way this year,
installation of the system could begin "in the latter part of
2008," and the facility could be operational by 2013.


US Under-Secretary of Defence for Policy, Eric Edelman, who was
travelling with Obering, insisted that the system would not
target Russia, and stressed that Washington wants to extend the
missile shield to protect its allies in Europe.


And last month, US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried said
Washington wants to base its 10 unarmed missiles in Poland as
"part of European defence, not American defence.


"It does us no good if Europe is vulnerable even if the United
States is not. Transatlantic security cannot be divided," Fried
said.


A report in Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita at the weekend said
that US President George W. Bush will make a brief trip to Warsaw
in June for talks with Polish counterpart Lech Kaczynski on the
missile shield.

