

Tony Blair led a triumvirate of British prime ministers on Monday
in tributes to former Russian president Boris Yeltsin, who died
Monday, hailing his contribution at a key time in his country's
history.


"It is with sadness that I learned of the death of former
president Yeltsin," Blair said in a statement issued by his
office.


"He was a remarkable man who saw the need for democracy and
economic reform and in defending that reform he played a vital
role at a crucial time in Russia's history."


There was praise, too, from former premiers Margaret Thatcher and
John Major, whose Conservative Party governments between 1979 and
1997 saw the decline and fall of the Soviet Union plus the
emergence of the new Russia.


"Without Boris Yeltsin, Russia would have remained in the grip of
Communism and the Baltic states would not be free. He deserves to
be honoured as a patriot and liberator," said Thatcher.


Major said Yeltsin was "a man of great courage and conviction".


"He was the first elected Russian president, he attempted to
instil a market economy in Russia in the most unpromising
circumstances. Only a man of great courage and conviction would
have attempted to do it," he told Sky News.


"He sought to instil in Russia many of the attributes we most
cherish in the West and I think to that extent he opened up
Russia in a way that continued for a very long time."


Major recalled how he first spoke to Yeltsin at the height of the
abortive coup against Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991.


"I phoned him up and he said to me that he was surrounded by
hardline Communists. He thought he only had 20 minutes or so and
would I go outside Downing Street and tell the world what's
happening," he added.


"I did that and it was the start of a pretty firm friendship that
lasted throughout my years in office and has been continued
since."


Speaking in Brussels, Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett expressed her sympathies for Yeltsin's family.


"He was a historic figure in Russia and someone who contributed
to democracy in Europe, in Russia, particularly at the time of
the attempted coup (by hardline Communists in 1991, which Yeltsin
prevented)," she said.


"I am sure it will be very much a landmark in Russian history."


Beckett's predecessor in the mid-1990s, Malcolm Rifkind, said:
"He was a larger than life character, very engaging, very
Russian. Very emotional, but also with tremendous courage.


"He was a seminal figure. His biggest contribution was to ensure
the Communist Party was not able to grab back power after the
attempted coup.


"Yeltsin made a major impact by preventing the coup succeeding,
but he also realised that it was necessary to dismantle the
Soviet Union," Rifkind said.


Former finance minister Lord Norman Lamont, who dealt with the
Kremlin leader at meetings of the Group of Seven wealthiest
nations, said: "Yeltsin was a very brave man, a fighter for
democracy, and economic reform.


"Today there is criticism of the privatisations of the early
1990s, but much of it was done under very difficult
circumstances. Yeltsin introduced many reforms which will benefit
the Russian people."


Britain's former ambassador to Moscow, Sir Roderic Lyne, told
delegates and media gathered at the Russian Economic Forum being
held in London: "He will go down in history as the man who showed
extraordinary personal courage.


"His leadership made a very major contribution to the peace of
Europe and the peace of the world. That's a pretty fine record,"
said Lyne, who was appointed in 1999 after Yeltsin resigned the
Russian presidency.


After hearing the news, some Russian delegates at the forum
appeared shocked and fled outside.

