

The two contenders for the French presidency say the work ethic
is vital to boosting growth and jobs, but while right-winger
Nicolas Sarkozy prefers market- driven measures Socialist
Segolene Royal favours state intervention.


With 8.4 percent of the French workforce out of a job, measures
to stimulate employment are certain to dominate exchanges between
Sarkozy and Royal between now and the run-off vote May 6.


To spur hiring and boost incomes, Sarkozy would scrap payroll tax
and social charges on overtime pay, thereby circumventing the
35-hour working week that was brought in by a Socialist
government.


Furthermore, people who turn down work could lose their
unemployment benefits under his plans.


Royal proposes lifting the minimum monthly wage from 1,250 euros
to 1,500 euros (1,900 dollars) over a period of five years. She
would create 500,000 state- backed "stepping stone" jobs for
youths, seniors and long-term unemployed.


Both argue that their initiatives would help create jobs by
galvanizing consumer spending, the principal driver of the French
economy.


Elsewhere in his economic platform Sarkozy has promised to draft
a "fiscal package," to to be unveiled in July, that would allow
taxpayers to deduct interest paid on loans taken out to buy
homes.


In addition, inheritance taxes would be abolished for between 90
and 95 percent of the French public, as opposed to between 80 and
90 percent at present. Sarkozy has described the measure as
embodying "the right to transmit to one's children the fruits of
a lifetime of work."


Royal by contrast would cancel tax breaks for the highest earners
and would tax companies that pay share dividends instead of
making job-creating investments. She has called for the
construction of 120,000 low-income housing units a year.


Neither candidate has had much to say about the public debt,
which now exceeds 66 percent of the country's gross domestic
product. Sarkozy has talked of reducing the number of civil
servants while Royal has vowed to attack wastefulness.


"Every euro spent must be a euro well-spent," she has said.


As finance minister in 2004 Sarkozy commissioned a committee of
experts -- headed by former IMF managing director Michel
Camdessus -- to assess what must be done if France is to shake
off its economic doldrums.


The panel in essence said the country had to work harder, rein in
"excessive" public sector spending and encourage technological
innovation.


Sarkozy said at the time that he embraced the report "because it
says three essential things: that it is urgent to carry out
reforms in our country, that reforms are not seen as a punishment
and that the number of public workers can be reduced in exchange
for productivity gains."


Trade unions protested the findings and are likely to do so again
if the study forms the backbone of Sarkozy's economic programme
as president.


He has pledged to carry on a dialogue with the unions but has
said he is prepared to back legislation requiring a minimum level
of service during public sector strikes.


Royal has stressed the need to work in concert with trade unions
"to reform France without brutalizing it."

