

Leaders in the Baltic states on Monday mourned the death of
former Russian president Boris Yeltsin, praising his courage in
helping them regain independence from the Soviet Union.


"Yeltsin was the statesman who laid the ground for Lithuania to
regain independence," Lithuanian Prime Minister Gediminas
Kirkilas told AFP.


"Agreements signed by Yeltsin, including the treaty on the
Russian army's withdrawal from Lithuania, were the most important
agreements for us with Russia," Kirkilas added.


Days after the abortive Moscow coup in August 1991, in which
hardline communists tried to wrest control from progressive USSR
leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Yeltsin, who was then Russian
President, signed a document recognising the independence of the
three Baltic states.


Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania had been forcibly incorporated into
Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union at the end of World War II.


At Yeltsin's urging, other leaders -- including Gorbachev on
behalf of the Soviet Union -- also publicly recognised the Baltic
states' sovereignty.


Earlier in 1991, when Soviet tanks killed a dozen Lithuanians
demonstrating in Vilnius for independence, Yeltsin had publicly
expressed his support for Baltic sovereignty.


"Yeltsin played a remarkable role in ending the totalitarian
regime of the USSR and giving birth to a new Russia," Estonian
President Toomas Hendrik  Ilves said in a letter of condolences.


"I remember with gratitude the role Yeltsin played in helping
Estonia to restore independence peacefully in 1991, and the role
he played in taking Russian out of Estonia in 1994," Ilves wrote.


Latvian President Vaira Vike-Freiberga hailed Yeltsin's "ability
to make decisions at crucial moments, his courage when it was
most needed will remain in the ineradicable scope of his
achievements".


"Boris Yeltsin played a significant role not only in Russian
history but in the history of the whole of eastern Europe," Vike-
Freiberga said.


"We are mourning along with Russia... this is a loss for Europe,"
she said.


Yeltsin died on Monday in Moscow from a heart attack. He was 76.

