

Paolo Maldini insists AC Milan ageing back-four will not make any
special plans to halt Manchester United's Cristiano Ronaldo in
the Champions League semi-final first leg at Old Trafford on
Tuesday.


The 38-year-old veteran defender is well aware of the threat
posed by the Portuguese winger following United's 7-1 demolition
of Milan's Serie A rivals AS Roma in the previous round.


But while Maldini acknowledges Ronaldo is currently one of the
game's outstanding players, he is adamant the Italians will not
alter their game plan to cope with Ronaldo, who was named both
young player and player of the year by his fellow footballers on
Sunday.


"I absolutely agree that Ronaldo is one of the top five players
in the world," Maldini said.


"But this kind of game is the true test of how good a player is
and the very best players can determine the outcome of these
games.


"We won't man-mark Ronaldo because that is not the way we play.
Whoever is near him will mark him so in a way he will decide who
is marking him. But if he finds himself up against me, he will
discover that I am still pretty fast!"


Maldini accepts United are a much stronger team than the side
that lost both legs when the clubs last met in this competition
two years ago.


But he also rubbished suggestions that coach Carlo Ancelotti's
ageing side have been in decline since then and insisted United's
victory over Roma would not faze them.


"They are a better team than two years ago because the younger
players have matured and developed, especially Ronaldo and Wayne
Rooney," he added.


"But there is no doubt we are up there with them and the fact we
are in the semi-final with them shows that. We are not frightened
of United. Far from it.


"We have huge respect for them and their performance against Roma
was obviously outstanding. But that was in the last round and
this is a completely different game."


While Ancelotti is able to field a familiar looking back-line
packed with experience, opposite number Sir Alex Ferguson is
facing a defensive crisis with three of his first choice back-
four missing.


Ancelotti, who will make a late decision on the fitness of
Brazilian keeper Dida, admits United's problems could work in his
side's favour.


"They are going to be missing some very big players," he said.
"But it's important for us not to focus on that because we have
to impose our own game on them just like we did when we won here
last time."

