

World oil prices advanced on Monday as concerns lingered over
crude production in Nigeria, the world's sixth biggest exporter
of oil, following disputed elections in the country.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
gained 89 cents to 67.38 dollars per barrel in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, rose 44 cents to 64.55 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


"Crude futures were higher (on Monday) with investors
concentrating on Nigeria's elections held over the weekend," said
analyst Michael Davies at the Sucden brokerage in London.


"There were some local civil disturbances, with reports of
fighting, but oil production has not been affected so far.


"However, international and local observers said these elections
were compromised by ballot stuffing, lack of voting papers and
outbreaks of violence, which could mean further violence."


Ruling party candidate Umaru Yar'Adua won Nigeria's presidential
election on Monday, even as foreign observers slammed the
credibility of the disputed poll that claimed at least 200 lives.


The national election commission declared Yar'Adua the winner
with 24.6 million votes, far ahead of his two main opposition
rivals.


Nigeria's main opposition parties immediately rejected the
victory on the grounds of rampant fraud and said they would take
the matter to court.


Just minutes after the announcement of Yar'Adua's victory, the
United States voiced deep concern at the violence and voting
irregularities that accompanied the election.


Meanwhile, further supply fears were stoked in the Middle East by
Iran's rejection on Sunday of Western demands that the country
suspend its uranium enrichment programme, which is a long-running
source of tension.


The latest development in the standoff has re-ignited fears that
Iran could use its status as the Middle East's second-largest oil
producer as leverage in the debate.


Traders were also awaiting US stockpile data due this Wednesday,
with analysts seeking confirmation that a recent pick-up in
refinery production has translated into rising US gasoline or
petrol reserves.

