

The lack of wind and attitude of the organisers at the Louis
Vuitton Cup has finally got to several of the challengers led by
joint series leader Luna Rosa Challenge.


One of their members Bruno Finzi accused the competition
organisers ACM of lacking respect for him and the other racers,
who have only been able to race three regattas in the opening
week of competition because of poor winds.


"ACM are putting their interests above those of the challengers,"
he told AFP.


"It should be normal that the challengers are able to decide the
organisation of their event.


"It is probably best that we reorganise the whole of the first
round all over again," he added.


ACM, which stemmed from reigning champions Swiss boat Alinghi,
did not want to comment on the growing dissent, though, on Sunday
their president Michel Bonnefous had defended the choice of
Valencia and the dates picked for the racing.


"Our first critieria for choosing the site was the wind and the
sporting aspect," said Bonnefous, who had to search abroad for a
venue as Switzerland is landlocked.


However the worsening atmosphere among the competitors and the
organisers was reflected by South African entry Team Shosholoza,
whose heads accused the race favourites of influencing the
organisers over whether they could race or not.


"At this stage all these no sail days can become a big problem
especially with the smaller teams who need to race all the
scheduled round robin races to put as many wins on the table as
possible," team boss Salvatore Sarno said in a statement obtained
by AFP.


"We are very, very upset because today it was possible to race
and we believe the big teams are pushing the race committee not
to start a race.


Sarno added that he did not agree with the decision to make seven
knot winds unraceable because they were judged to be too light.


"We also don't agree about the 7 knot parameter," he said.


"Shosholoza RSA 83 is the kind of boat that performs very well in
light winds. There would have been no problem for an exciting
race to take place.


"It is the very big teams that are worried about our performance.
They are scared of what can happen"


There could be more trouble on Tuesday as the winds are predicted
to be as mild as they were on Monday.


So far, only last Friday and Sunday have seen any racing and Luna
Rosa Challenge and BMW Oracle Racing lead the standings with nine
points each after three wins apiece.


Early favourites Emirates Team New Zealand are next with six
points having picked up their first win on Sunday following a
shock defeat to Italians Mascalzone Latino on Friday.


The round robin stages of the Louis Vuitton are due to run until
May 7 or 8, with the semi-finals scheduled for May 14-25 and the
final on June 1-12.


The winner goes on to challenge Swiss defender Alinghi for the
32nd America's Cup best of nine match series starting from June
23.

