

Urine samples from cyclist Floyd Landis taken during his
contested win in the 2006 Tour de France have tested positive for
the banned substance testosterone, L'Equipe sports daily reported
on Monday.


On its website, L'Equipe reported that "B" samples belonging to
the American had been tested retrospectively following a request
from the US Anti-Doping Agency (USADA).


However French anti-doping agency president Pierre Bordry told
AFP that although the analyses had been carried out, the results
were not yet known.


He said that seven "B" urine samples belonging to Landis, which
were marked only by a number, were analysed alongside several
other anonymous samples, none of which are identifiable.


Leading the prosecution case against Landis, USADA successfully
appealed to an arbitration panel that the seven "B" samples be
tested at the French laboratory which processed his original, and
disputed, positive test.


Landis, who denies taking performance-enhancing drugs, has
charged the Laboratoire National Depistage de Dopage's (LNDD)
laboratory at Chatenay-Malabry outside Paris with mis-handling
his original samples.


He has said he would prefer the samples to be tested at the
University of California at a Los Angeles accredited laboratory.


Landis later reacted angrily to the latest revelations.


Reading a statement in a telephone press conference, Landis told
reporters: "I won the Tour fair and square, and I'm disappointed
but not surprised to see the leak ... to L'Equipe.


"It's just another example that the very few rights an athlete
has are being completely ignored by the anti-doping authorities,"
said Landis, accusing the LNDD and USADA of "a total lack of
ethics."


"We're looking at potentially deliberate falsification of results
and wilful destruction of evidence which was one of our arguments
against retesting being done at the lab in question," Landis
added.


One of Landis's lawyers, Maurice Suh, said a member of Landis
legal team had been barred from observing the re-testing
procedure at Chatenay Malabry.


"Our expert was literally shut out of the lab and had to wait
outside on the curb for the results to be delivered to him," he
said. "Moreover there was no independent panel present for any
part of the testing."


Landis, 31, is in danger of being stripped of his Tour de France
victory and given a two-year ban.


The American, whose positive test from stage 17 of the 2006 race
prompted the collapse of his Phonak team, also faces a French
government probe but that has been delayed until after the
inquiry following his promise not to race in France this year,
ending any chance to defend his title.

