

The United States said Monday that it was "deeply troubled" by
violence and irregularities in Nigeria's elections, which a
senior official said were "clearly" flawed.


"We are deeply troubled by what we saw over the weekend," White
House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe told reporters
as US and European Union observers challenged the credibility of
presidential elections held on Saturday.


"We had urged free and fair elections, and I'm not sure that is
exactly what the people of Nigeria got. We look forward to
getting more information as the observers report," said Johndroe.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said that while
Washington was still awaiting assessments from US and other
international monitors who observed the elections, it was already
evident the vote was marred by irregularities.


"Clearly these were flawed elections, I think that even the
initial reports would give people confidence in saying that,"
McCormack said.


"It's safe to say that while everybody can applaud the effort of
the Nigerian people in participating in these elections, that the
process really didn't meet the hopes and the standards that the
Nigerians themselves set up and the expectations that they set
out," he said.


McCormack declined to comment on opposition calls for the
presidential election be cancelled and re-run, saying such
decisions were up to the Nigerians themselves.


"It should be a process in which any questions that are raised
are resolved by the Nigerians and their constitutional process.


"We will see in the coming days and weeks how the process
unfolds," he said.


Both spokesmen appealed for calm.


"We would hope all sides would refrain from any violence as they
try to resolve their issues," Johndroe said.


After they spoke, ruling party candidate Umar Yar'Adua was
declared the winner of the presidential election, the second of
two rounds of voting in the space of a week that left some 200
people dead in poll-related violence.


On April 14, Nigerians voted for state governors in polling which
monitors also said was marred by fraud.

