

The United States accused Eritrea Monday of providing funding,
arms and training to insurgents battling Somali forces and allied
Ethiopian troops in Mogadishu.


The State Department's top Africa official, Assistant Secretary
of State Jendaye Frazer, also called for renewed ceasefire talks
to end the deadliest fighting that Somalia has seen in years.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was due to discuss the
situation Monday with her visiting Ethiopian counterpart, Seyoum
Mesfin, officials said.


The fighting in Mogadishu pits heavily armed Ethiopian troops
allied to the country's UN-recognized interim government against
an Islamist militia known as al-Shabab and other insurgents
supported by the city's dominant Hawiye clan.


Ethiopia intervened in Somalia, with tacit US support, in
December to help oust an Islamist movement which had seized
control of much of the country from the transitional federal
government.


Since then, Ethiopian forces and the insurgents in Mogadishu have
battled with tanks, mortars and other heavy weapons in fighting
that has claimed over 1,000 lives, more than 250 of them in the
past week, and forced hundreds of thousands of people to flee
their homes.


Frazer, who visited Somalia early this month, singled out Eritrea
on Monday for helping fuel the fighting in order to weaken
Ethiopia, its regional arch rival.


"Eritrea has not been playing a constructive role in Somalia
because they continue to fund, arm, train and advise the
insurgents, especially the al-Shabab militia," she told
reporters.


Frazer also said the Ethiopians were actively trying to negotiate
a truce with the Hawiya clan, which has remained estranged from
the interim government.


"We know that Ethiopia is very quietly working very closely with
especially the Hawiya clan and the transitional federal
government to negotiate a long-term ceasefire," she said, without
elaborating.


"We're pushing for the ceasefire, and for those discussions to
bear fruit so that they can end this violence," she said.


Frazer also called on the interim government to step up efforts
to broaden its base to include more clans.


"It's very clear that the key to solving the situation in Somalia
and stabilizing it is to have this inclusive dialogue," she said.


"Trying to get the transitional federal government to reach out
to the various clans and sub-clans is a large part of our
diplomacy," she said.


Frazer went on to accuse the Islamist militia of trying to
undermine reconciliation efforts by targeting Hawiya clan leaders
willing to talk to the government.


"They are actually trying to spoil this process of political
dialogue and reconciliation," she said.


The US also backs the planned deployment of some 8,000 African
Union peacekeepers to help stabilize Somalia.


But so far only about 1,500 Ugandan soldiers have arrived and
their presence has made little difference.

