

With the solemn toll of a bell timed with the release of 32 white
balloons into a perfect blue sky Monday, Virginia Tech University
paid tribute to students and faculty slain one week ago by a
deranged classmate on a shooting spree.


The campus fell into a long silence at 9:45 am on the first day
of classes since Cho Seung-Hui's bloody rampage, with thousands
of students and university employees massed at a makeshift
memorial for the ceremony.


On the sprawling drillfield at the campus center, the bell tolled
slowly as each balloon drifted above the trees and buildings of
the campus.


Then 1,000 balloons in maroon and orange, the school colors, were
released into the air in a symbol of determination matching the
resolve of many students who said they will somehow finish out
the last two weeks of the school year.


"There is nowhere I would rather be than Blacksburg," said first-
year student Morgan Whitehead, who had spent the weekend at home
in Orange, Virginia.


"I have never been more proud to attend Virginia Tech," he said.


University administrators and professors spent the weekend
preparing for the return of more than 20,000 students, meeting
with professional grief counselors and psychiatrists to learn how
to help students who might still be in shock a week after Cho
terrified the campus blasting his way through a dormitory and a
classroom during school hours.


Reporters were banned from classroom buildings as the classes
opened, but counselors were in many of the rooms and university
halls urging students to contact them if they couldn't get over
the tragedy.


Not all were ready to be back to school.


"All my classes were like, the teacher and everybody began
crying," said one female undergraduate who refused to identify
herself.


"I'm not going to stick around today," she said, tears welling in
her eyes.


"It's really bad right now. The campus went through a tragedy,"
said mathematics major Raphael Jose Gonzales, whose first class
was just next door to the now- closed Norris Hall where Cho shot
30 of his victims last Monday.


On the radiant green drillfield, hundreds of students, many in
tears, filed past the site where stones had been laid for each of
the victims and Cho, who killed himself at the end of his
rampage.


Each was piled high with flowers, photographs, personal mementos
and candles for the 27 dead students and five dead faculty
members.


The stone for Cho had mysteriously disappeared, but left behind
were a number of open letters expressing defiance, forgiveness
and sympathy for his family.


Some students sought out the chance to pet and hug a handful of
"comfort dogs," brought by a team from the Hope Crisis group
sponsored by the American Red Cross.


"She's really soft," said one student as she hugged Ginger, a
white, mixed whippet breed who had done service in New Orleans
after the Hurricane Katrina disaster in 2005.


Most students said they were happy to return, with barely two
weeks left in the term and final exams imminent -- though the
university has told students they can just opt to take their
grades on course work done already this year if they feel they
cannot finish the semester.


"I'm glad to be back. It helps us regain some sense of
normality," said second year animal physiology major Teresa Jones
of Alexandria, Virginia, near Washington.


Earlier at 7:15 am (1115 GMT) -- about the time Cho began his
rampage -- a small group of students gathered for a silent
commemoration ceremony on a field not far from the dormitory
where he fatally shot two of his victims.


To the sound of the Civil War dirge "Battle Hymn of the
Republic," played by a small corps of drummers and brass
musicians, about 50 students formed a procession to Norris Hall,
accompanied by thirty-three small Tibetan prayer- flag-like white
banners, one for each between of the dead, including Cho.

