

Leading European officials praised the role played by former
Russian president Boris Yeltsin, who died Monday, in
establishing democracy and a market economy in the country.


"He made a decisive contribution to establishing democracy and a
market economy in Russia," said German Foreign Minister Frank-
Walter Steinmeier, whose country holds the rotating EU
presidency.


"That is deserving of our respect. He looked towards Europe and
made a major contribution to the relations between our two
countries and relations between the European Union and Russia.


"Relations of friendship and partnership developed during his
period in government," he told reporters in Luxembourg after a
meeting with his EU counterparts.


Sharing the platform, EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said
he had "great respect for his life and deeds." He contributed to
"the well-being of the late 20th century," he added.


Solana highlighted in particular Yeltsin's role during the
attempted coup in Moscow in the summer of 1991 and his signing of
the first Russia-NATO agreement in 1997.


EU External Affairs Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner agreed
that the former Russian leader would be remembered for his
contribution to democracy and a market economy in Russia.


British Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett called Yeltsin "a
historic figure ... who contributed to to democracy in Europe, in
Russia particularly at the time of the attempted coup."


But EU leaders also noted that the successor to the first EU-
Russia partnership agreement -- signed under Yeltsin's rule 1997
-- was now being blocked by a food embargo row between Moscow and
Poland.


There are also strong differences of opinion between Moscow and
Brussels on Russia's massive energy market -- which the Europeans
would like to see made more transparent and open -- and on the
future of Kosovo.


The 27 EU foreign ministers were due to meet Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov after their meeting, with the Russian
crackdown against opposition supporters another bone of
contention.

