

A brave act of defiance signalled the start of Boris Yeltsin's
turbulent political career at the head of the Russian state --
the energetic leader climbed a tank in defiance of a military
coup.


But the lasting memory of his presidency for many Russians will
be the rampant corruption under his rule and a humiliating defeat
at the hands of Chechen separatists, as well as his drunken
pranks.


Yeltsin, who died aged 76 on Monday, led Russia through eight
years of difficult transition as its first post-Soviet president.


He helped dismantle the Soviet Union, bringing democracy and
capitalism to Russia in the most sweeping reforms since the 1917
Communist revolution.


His moment of glory came in August 1991 when he climbed on top of
a tank outside the Russian parliament and rallied a crowd of
protesters against a coup by Soviet leaders opposed to democratic
reforms.


But, while Yeltsin became a hero for Russian democrats, the
radical economic reforms he launched impoverished many in Russia
and allowed a tiny elite of well-connected entrepreneurs to amass
fabulous fortunes.


The later years of Yeltsin's presidency were also overshadowed by
his legendary drinking bouts and chronic heart problems, which
frequently saw him disappear from public view for days at a time.


He announced his resignation in a televised address on New Year's
Eve 1999, naming as his favoured successor the country's newly-
appointed prime minister Vladimir Putin, then a little-known
political figure.


An instinctive leader and a political opportunist, Yeltsin
oversaw a watershed in Russian history but he became increasingly
prey to a close entourage of oligarchs and corrupt state
officials that damaged his legacy.


He was born to a peasant family in 1931 near the Ural mountains
city of Yekaterinburg and became a construction engineer before
embarking on a political career in the Communist Party.


Called to Moscow by Gorbachev in 1985, he shot to national and
international prominence two years later when he openly defied
the Soviet leader over the speed of reforms and he was ousted
from the politburo.


He earned a reputation as a reformer and an able political
player. In 1990, he resigned from the Communist Party and in June
1991 he was elected president of the Russian Federation.


Yeltsin finally won a protracted feud with arch-rival Gorbachev
in December 1991 when, together with the leaders of Ukraine and
Belarus, he proclaimed the dissolution of the Soviet Union.


After coming to power in post-Soviet Russia, he became estranged
from his former allies in the parliament, who bitterly opposed
his radical market reforms.


In a power struggle, Yeltsin resorted to tanks to blast his
opponents out of the Russian parliament building in October 1993
and introduced a new constitution that increased his powers.


In 1994, he launched a brutal Russian military crackdown against
Chechen separatists that killed nearly 40,000 people, mostly
civilians, and ended with a humiliating withdrawal in 1996.


It was left to his successor, Putin, to crush the Chechen
insurgency.


Since resigning in 1999, Yeltsin has kept a low profile, steering
away from public comments about Putin, who has been deeply
critical of the way Russia was run during the 1990s.

