

Manchester United keeper Edwin van der Sar senses he is on the
verge of collecting his second Champions League winners' medal 12
years after pocketing his first.


The Premiership leaders step up their Treble assault on Tuesday
when they face AC Milan at Old Trafford in the semi-final first
leg of Europe's most prestigious knockout competition.


Van der Sar was part of the Ajax team which beat the Italians 1-0
in the 1995 final in Vienna when Clarence Seedorf, now at AC
Milan, played for the Dutch side.


And the 36-year-old former Juventus stopper is confident he can
conquer Europe again with United.


"It's a long time since I last won it," said van der Sar.


"But I look around the dressing room and I have a similar feeling
to the one I had in 1995.


"We have enough quality, but you can say that about the other
three teams left in the competition.


"So everyone has to be at their best and show that on the pitch."


As well as reaching the last four stage of the Champions League,
United, three points clear at the top of the Premiership table,
have booked their place in next month's FA Cup final.


And van der Sar admits he is having the time of his life as
United look to repeat their feat of 1999 when they won the
Treble.


"It's a good time to be in the dressing room," added the veteran
Dutch international. "Things are going well. There's a lot at
stake, but there's a lot of confidence in the team."


United, who sent shock waves across Europe by thrashing Roma 8-3
on aggregate in the last round, have been hit by a string of
injuries ahead of Tuesday with Rio Ferdinand and Nemanja Vidic
definitely ruled out of the first leg while Patrice Evra is
struggling to be involved despite returning to training on the
eve of the tie.


Yet Ferguson believes his players can extract revenge on AC Milan
after the Italians, who went on the reach the final, ended their
Champions League campaign at the last 16 stage in 2005.


"The important players are all available," said the United
manager.


"The one problem I do have is we've an inadequate bench.
Obviously you do miss players like Rio Ferdinand, Gary Neville
and Louis Saha in big matches like this. But the spine of the
team is good.


"I don't have any fears. The mood in the camp pleases me.


"The team spirit has got better simply because the group is
getting to know each other and there's a great coming together of
the younger players which is very healthy.


"I'm always looking for warning signs of nerves at this time of
the season and the only concern we have is that we have one or
two injuries.


"The Roma score in the last round was a once in a life time
result. But I think we should still expect a very good
performance.


"There's always going to be an expectation considering the
players we have. The importance of the occasion demands the best
performance from us. It's not going to be easy.


"But when you get to the semi-final of this particular
competition it's never going to be easy whoever you face.


"We can't ignore the standards of the AC Milan players.


"Everybody expects us to have a real go and score to give us a
real chance.


"I know the name of the game in these particular situations is to
win and not lose a goal.


"That's what we're planning to do. Hopefully we can carry out
that plan. If we can do that it will be a massive result for us.
I think we can score."

