

Unwary investors should be suspicious of e-mails, cell phone text
messages and faxes touting supposedly cheap Chinese stocks which
promoters claim will rocket in value, US regulators said Monday.


The NASD financial watchdog said such touted stocks are often not
Chinese or even listed on China's exchanges.


Officials said fraudsters are using such fake share tips to boost
a stock's price and then sell off their shares for a handsome
profit before investors realize they have been duped.


"The fact that a company has 'China' in its name can be
misleading, especially since most of the companies being peddled
are not even incorporated in China," cautioned NASD chief
executive Mary Schapiro.


The NASD issued its alert amid a boom in China's stock markets
which have rocketed to record heights of late, amid a red hot
expansion of the country's economy, generating headlines in the
financial media.


"The best way to avoid being taken in by a scam is to ignore
these unsolicited stock recommendations or at the very least
investigate the company and its claims before investing,"
Schapiro advised.


Often referred to as "pump and dump" schemes, fraudsters have
taken increasing advantage of the Internet in recent years to
mount their scams and target wider numbers of people.


"Grabbing massive profits in China has never been easier than
right now!" one supposed investment fax cited by the NASD
proclaimed, as it urged investors to "load up on the stock now!"


The NASD warning comes a month after the Securities and Exchange
Commission, a government regulator, suspended trade in 35 small
companies due to a fraudulent campaign of mass e-mails that hyped
the firms' shares to investors.


Regulators say such spamming, as it is known, is on the increase.


The SEC estimates that some 100 million spam messages touting
stocks are e-mailed en masse every week, sometimes triggering
dramatic spikes in share prices and trading volumes.


Stock market professionals, however, say investors should not buy
stocks before researching their potential investment and a
company's operations.

