

International relief agency Oxfam began taking bids on Tuesday in
an online celebrity auction aimed at raising money for its work
in Darfur and neighbouring Chad.


The auction, which will see the prized possessions of several
celebrities sold to the public, is part of a five-million-pound
(7.4-million-euro, 10-million- dollar) appeal launched by the
charity on April 16.


Among the items on offer are pop star Elton John's tailor-made
Donatella Versace suit, a script of hit film The Queen signed by
Oscar-winning actress Helen Mirren, Coldplay frontman Chris
Martin's Dolce and Gabbana jacket, and gold- coloured designer
shoes signed by actress Sienna Miller.


"I'm delighted to donate this suit... and hope it raises lots of
cash for the people of Darfur who have already suffered too
much," Elton John said.


"Oxfam is reaching 500,000 people... but to reach more people
they need our help."


Four years of ethnic strife in Darfur, in western Sudan, have
resulted in at least 200,000 deaths and displaced more than two
million people, according to UN figures. The conflict has since
spread into neighbouring Chad.


Oxfam said its work in the two countries was its biggest
emergency programme in the world, costing about 10 million pounds
a year.


Also available for fans to bid on are the red dress worn by
Corinne Bailey Rae in her hit music video "Put Your Records On",
and two photographs by war photographer Don McCullen, one of
which is signed, of the crisis.


The charity, which hopes to raise about 500,000 pounds from the
celebrity auction, encouraged members of the public to put items
of their own up for sale at www.oxfam.org.uk/darfurauction.


Oxfam says it is providing aid to 530,000 people in the two
countries -- 470,000 in Darfur, and 60,000 in Chad.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir recently agreed to allow a
first phase deployment of some 3,000 UN troops to boost an
ineffective African Union (AU) peacekeeping force in Darfur.


But he has objected to key elements of a larger operation of
20,000 UN peacekeepers, including allowing the UN to share
command of the forces with their AU counterparts.

