

England striker Peter Crouch has admitted he is jealous of his
team-mates who have already been crowned kings of Europe two
seasons ago.


Liverpool line up against Chelsea on Wendesday in their Champions
League semi- final first leg tie in London, exactly two years
after they beat the same opponents at the same stage.


That year, and driven on by an inspired Steven Gerrard, Liverpool
lifted their fifth European crown, capped by a remarkable
comeback from 3-0 down in the final against AC Milan.


Now Crouch wants to be able to savour the experience many of his
team-mates have already enjoyed.


"Most of the lads here have all played in a European Cup final
and know what it feels like to lift the trophy, and I would love
the chance to do that," he told the official Liverpool magazine.


"It is something I have missed, and so have a few more recent
signings, and I would love to experience it myself."


The striker arrived at Anfield for seven million pounds (14
million dollars) two months after Liverpool won the trophy in
Istanbul.


Boss Rafael Benitez also spent the profits from that historic run
on bolstering his squad with goalkeeper Jose Reina and midfielder
Mohamed Sissoko.


Defender Daniel Agger followed in January 2006 with the likes of
Jermaine Pennant, Craig Bellamy, Dirk Kuyt and now Javier
Mascherano being added since.


"It was one of the reasons why I joined Liverpool. The boys talk
about it now, and I am gutted I was not involved. Hopefully I can
achieve that now myself," added Crouch.


Crouch is no certainty to start for Liverpool if they reach the
final, or even in the semi-finals for that matter, as Rafael
Benitez considers his tactics and striking options.


Benitez has plenty of alternatives, with Kuyt and Bellamy also
jostling for a place in the side as the Spaniard decides on
whether to play one or two forwards.


"The two matches are going to be tight, but we have proved
against Chelsea that we can beat them," said Crouch. "We have won
three of the last four meetings between the sides and beaten them
in the league at Anfield in February.


"But we know we are going to have to be at our very best to beat
them, but if we play the way we can we can beat anyone."


Crouch has hit seven goals in Europe this season to match the
club record of Steven Gerrard and Roger Hunt as the only
Liverpool players to score seven goals in a single European Cup
campaign.


He said: "I am really enjoying the competition, I've scored a few
goals and I am on a bit of run in Europe, so I hope that
continues all the way to the final."

