

Reduced production by OPEC oil exporters risks causing another
damaging oil price spike this year, an influential energy
consultancy warned on Monday.


The Centre for Global Energy Studies (CGES) urged the 12-member
OPEC cartel to raise production to help lower prices and avoid
another shock on the oil market during the northern hemisphere
summer.


"If OPEC really wants the stable market it claims to seek, now is
the time to raise output," the CGES monthly report for April
said.


"OPEC should no longer be concerned about prices falling, but
about avoiding another spike."


The warnings from CGES echo promptings from the International
Energy Agency, an energy watchdog for consumer countries, which
has also pressed OPEC to increase production in the last few
weeks.


The IEA said in its monthly report for April that OPEC output in
March was at its lowest level since January 2005.


The OPEC-11 grouping, which excludes production from recent
member Angola, has cut its production by more than 1.5 million
barrels per day since last August, CGES said.


The most recent output cuts by OPEC, in November and February,
have helped oil prices to rise nearly 30 percent since mid-
January when crude dipped to just below 50 dollars per barrel in
New York.


"OPEC appears to have successfully averted the risk of a heavy
fall in oil prices by means of its production cut over the
winter.


"It now has to face up to the challenge of avoiding a repeat of
last year's price surge during the summer months by raising
output," CGES said.


CGES said that the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries
had underestimated oil supply from non-OPEC countries this year,
potentially causing a shortage of supply.


The price of oil hit a record near 80 dollars per barrel last
year because of geopolitical uncertainty caused by the war
between Israel and the Lebanese Shiite militia Hezbollah.


OPEC sees the world needing production of 30.3 million bpd in
order to leave stocks unchanged, while the CGES believes it would
need 30.7 mln bpd.


"This difference (of 400,000 bpd) could create, or avoid, a
repeat of last year's damaging price spike," the report said.


Oil is currently trading at around 67 dollars per barrel in
London and 64 dollars in New York.


CGES added that the high level of oil prices had already begun
reducing demand.


High prices encourage investments to increase energy efficiency
and alternative sources of power.


"Global oil demand growth has slowed in response to high oil
prices and global economic growth might well weaken," said the
report.


"Inflationary pressures are beginning to mount in oil-consuming
countries, leading to interest rate rises and a general economic
tightening," added the CGES.

