

British lightweight prospect Amir Khan is to fight for the
Commonwealth title in July against current holder Willie Limond.


And the Olympic silver medallist from Athens in 2004 admitted it
will be a big step up in class from his previous bouts.


Khan is hoping that a good showing at London's O2 Arena, formerly
known as the Millennium Dome, will silence the critics who say
his 12 previous opponents have been too easy.


"People think I'm getting easy fights, but they haven't been
easy. This is a tough fight which will prove my opposition is top
class," said the 20-year-old.


"The recognition will come. This fight is great for me. It's come
quickly as it will only be my 13th fight but I'm getting used to
being a seasoned professional.


"I need this fight as well to give me that push - it will show me
where I am in the professional game."


Topping the bill is Nicky Cook's challenge for the vacant WBO
featherweight title against American Steven Luevano, but it is
Khan's toughest assignment yet that will be the centre of
attention on July 14.


Limond's eighth-round stoppage by fellow Scot Alex Arthur in 2003
is his solitary defeat in 29 fights and while only eight wins
have come inside the distance, he is a fine technician.


A three-round demolition of Steffy Bull earlier this month handed
Khan his 12th professional victory and the Bolton man believes he
needs a greater challenge to demonstrate his progress.


Khan expects he will have to prove his courage and durability
when he meets the 28-year-old from Glasgow.


"I've seen a few of Willie's fights. He's a great fighter. He can
take a shot and give one back. It will be more of a fight than
I've had in the past," he said.


"I will get hit but that means I can show people I've got heart
and won't back off. I can prove a lot of things.


"In the past I've thrown a few good shots and it's finished, but
Willie can take a few good shots. He'll come back and give it."


Limond added: "I had no hesitation taking this fight. I don't
know if this fight has come too early for Amir.


"He has shown good potential in his recent fights and his ability
is there for everybody to see. But sometimes you can take these
fights too early."

