

EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot and UN officials on
Monday gave wholehearted support to the idea of a United Nations
ministerial conference on the global death toll from "road
violence."


Barrot warned that without concerted action, road accidents,
which kill about 40 young people a minute, would fast become the
third cause of death in the world.


"That implies the United Nations should organise a conference,
especially since it's about eradicating a form of violence," the
European Commission vice president said.


"In some way you can say that road violence is just as dramatic
as a military conflict, with the number of deaths and injuries,"
he told journalists.


Nearly 1.2 million people die in road traffic collisions every
year and up to 50 million are injured, especially in low- and
middle-income countries, yet many of the accidents are
preventable, according to the United Nations.


"More than 90 percent of road accidents are caused by human
behaviour," said Jose Capel Ferrer, head of the UN Economic
Commission for Europe's transport division.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair and German motor racing legend
Michael Schumacher had earlier teamed up at the start of Global
Road Safety Week in London to back the calls from campaigners for
a UN conference.


"Road crashes kill on the scale of malaria or tuberculosis, yet
the international community has not woken up to this horrific
waste of life," seven- time Formula One champion Schumacher said.


World Health Organisation official Etienne Krug said in Geneva
that a meeting of all ministers involved could boost awareness
and action for safer road equipment, helmets for all
motorcyclists and seatbelts in cars, as well as against speeding
and drink-driving.


The WHO estimates that more than 1,000 young people die each day
after being hit by a vehicle or involved in a collision, making
it the top cause of death for 10 to 24-year-olds.


"It's the equivalent of the massacre of several schools a day,"
Krug remarked, bemoaning the "fatalism" that surrounded the
issue.


Nelly Ghusanyi, a 21-year-old Lebanese campaigner heading a UN
youth assembly on road safety here this week, urged decision-
makers to involve young people in their work, saying it made them
more responsible.


"I think a global ministerial conference for transport might be
beneficial because there isn't one right now. It's about time
that we had some young people attending all the meetings," she
said.


Barrot said the European Commission would release an annual
"scorecard" on road safety for each of EU member nations on
Friday.


The UN pointed to a bigger problem further east.


"The situation is particularly dramatic in eastern Europe and
central Asia. The number of people killed in that region is 10
times the EU-15," Capel-Ferrer said, referring to the European
Union before enlargement in 2004.

