

European Union foreign ministers on Monday widened a travel ban
on Zimbabweans deemed responsible for the country's "rapidly
deteriorating human rights, political and economic situation."


In a statement issued during a meeting in Luxembourg, the
ministers condemned "the acts of violent expression against the
opposition" and called for all sides in the Zimbabwean
hostilities to stop the violence.


The fresh names on the visa ban list belong to people deemed
responsible for a recent crackdown on opponents to President
Robert Mugabe's regime, according to the statement, which did not
list the individual names that had been added.


The EU slapped sanctions on President Robert Mugabe, 83, and his
government after the long-serving ruler won elections in 2002
which the opposition insists were rigged.


The ban currently covers some 130 people, including Mugabe, his
wife, current and former cabinet members and leaders of his
ruling Zanu-PF party.


The long-standing political tensions in Zimbabwe deteriorated in
March when state security agents assaulted opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai and scores of supporters and shot dead an
activist as they broke up an anti-government rally.


The German EU presidency stressed at the end of March the need to
firm up the European sanctions against the Zimbabwean regime.


The foreign ministers on Monday emphasised however that the
measures were "exclusively aimed at those leading figures
responsible for Zimbabwe's crisis of governance and abuses of
human rights," not at the Zimbabwean people.


"The EU, reaffirming its solidarity with the Zimbabwe people,
will continue its contribution to operations of humanitarian
nature and projects which are in direct support of the
population," the ministers said.


EU funding activities to the Zimbabwean people last year amounted
to 193 million euros (262 million dollars).


The ministers also hailed the efforts of South Africa to limit
the "potentially destabilising impact" of the Zimbabwe situation.

