

Tour de France winner Floyd Landis on Monday lashed out at fresh
revelations in the French media that seven samples taken from
last year's race had tested positive for banned drugs.


Landis, who is fighting to clear his name over a failed dope test
on Stage 17 of last year's Tour, suggested that the latest
results reported by L'Equipe could have been falsified by the
French laboratory which handled them.


Reading a statement in a telephone press conference, Landis told
reporters: "I won the Tour fair and square, and I'm disappointed
but not surprised to see the leak ... to L'Equipe.


"It's just another example that the very few rights an athlete
has are being completely ignored by the anti-doping authorities,"
said Landis, accusing the Laboratoire National Depistage de
Dopage's (LNDD) lab outside Paris and the US Anti-Doping Agency
of "a total lack of ethics."


"We're looking at potentially deliberate falsification of results
and wilful destruction of evidence which was one of our arguments
against retesting being done at the lab in question," Landis
added.


L'Equipe reported on Monday that seven 'B' samples taken from
backup urine samples belonging to Landis showed traces of
synthetic testosterone.


Landis's lawyers had argued the re-testing was unnecessary
because initial tests had been negative.


They had sought to have the re-testing performed at a lab in the
United States, claiming the LNDD's lab at Chatenay-Malabry, which
had tested the Stage 17 sample, could not be trusted.


One of Landis's lawyers, Maurice Suh, said the fact that the lab
was given responsibility for testing the additional samples was
like asking "a fox to guard the hen-house."


"We had been for months requesting the retesting at a neutral
facility. USADA has in response consistently said that any
testing occur at LNDD," Suh said.


"Our concerns were that LNDD is a lab which is now fighting for
its reputation. Any results that came out of these retesting
samples that continued to be adverse would in effect save its
reputation.


"That's what we're concerned about. It's the fox guarding the
henhouse."


Suh said a member of Landis legal team had been barred from
observing the re- testing procedure at Chatenay Malabry.


"Our expert was literally shut out of the lab and had to wait
outside on the curb for the results to be delivered to him," he
said. "Moreover there was no independent panel present for any
part of the testing."

