

A man who spent 25 years in jail for a rape he didn't commit had
his conviction quashed on the basis of new DNA evidence Monday,
bringing to 200 the number of cases overturned in similar fashion
nationwide since the 1980s.


A judge vacated Jerry Miller's conviction on all charges stemming
from the 1981 rape of a Chicago businesswoman, after his lawyers
and state prosecutors presented genetic evidence that ruled him
out as the attacker.


Miller, 48, already is out of jail, having been paroled in March
2006 after serving more than half of his sentence.


Monday's finding means the conviction will be expunged from his
record, He now will be removed from a list of convicted sex
offenders, and no longer will be required to wear the electronic
tag that was a condition of his parole.


Just as importantly, it paves the way for him to seek
compensation from the state for his quarter century of
incarceration.


Miller was 21 years old and fresh from a stint in the army when
he was fingered as the assailant in a brazen attack on a 44-year-
old woman in a downtown Chicago garage late one night in
September, 1981.


The attacker surprised the woman as she was about to enter her
car. He beat, robbed and raped her, and then forced her into the
trunk of her car.


With the victim still in the trunk, the assailant tried to drive
the vehicle out of the garage, but was forced to flee on foot
when confronted by two parking attendants.


DNA testing was not available when Miller was convicted of the
attack in the early 1980s and sentenced to 45 years in jail for
rape, robbery, and aggravated kidnapping and aggravated battery.


His conviction turned largely on what proved to be flawed
eyewitness testimony, which is at fault in many wrongful
conviction cases according to the Innocence Project, a non-profit
legal clinic that helped to clear his name.


During his two and a half decades behind bars, Miller says he
wrote hundreds of letters to lawyers, journalists and others
seeking help.


It was one such letter to the Innocence Project that led to a
request for the DNA testing that ultimately exposed his case as a
miscarriage of justice.

