

Long the laggard of the world economy, the 13-nation eurozone is
becoming the star performer among major developed economic
powers, driving the bloc's shared currency to new heights.


Following the publication of weaker-than-expected US economic
growth data, the euro rose on Friday to an all-time high of
1.3682 dollars, breaking its past record of 1.3666 from December
2004.


Expectations for higher interest rates in the eurozone are also
driving the euro higher, lifting the unit to a new record on
Friday against the Japanese currency of 163.16 yen.


"Much-improved eurozone economic activity and higher interest
rates have supported the euro," said economist Howard Archer with
consultancy Global Insight.


"The eurozone economy expanded 2.7 percent in 2006, its best
performance since 2001, and growth appears to be holding up well
so far in 2007," he added.


The last time the euro reached such levels against other major
currencies in late 2004 and early 2005, its strength helped
derail a nascent economic recovery in Europe by sapping foreign
demand for eurozone exports.


However, this time eurozone growth is on a more solid footing
thanks in large part to growing domestic demand, which many
economists expect should be able to make up for any lost foreign
orders.


Data published last week showed improvements in French business
and German consumer sentiment while economists expect a eurozone
survey due on Monday to show higher optimism across the bloc's
economy in April.


The improving outlook in Europe increasingly contrasts with
developments in the United States, where the economy expanded at
a worse-than-expected 1.3 percent rate in the first quarter, the
slowest period of growth in four years, according to US
government figures Friday.


Meanwhile, although Japan is enjoying an economic recovery, the
central bank said it expected only tepid growth this year of 2.1
percent.


The European Commission is officially forecasting eurozone growth
this year of 2.4 percent but the European Union's executive arm
has said that it would likely revise its estimate higher to take
account of the improving outlook.


While the euro's strength abruptly halted the last recovery many
politicians in the bloc, though not Italian or French leaders,
are confident they won't see a repeat, even though it is likely
to make the bloc's exports more expensive.


The chairman of the Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers,
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, shrugged off the
euro's latest record on Friday, saying he was "not concerned."


Far from being a burden on the 13-nation eurozone economy,
Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders said earlier this month
that the euro's strength was a sign of confidence in its growth
prospects.


"If you have a strong currency it reflects a strong economy," he
said. "A strong euro and a strong economy, that's the best
scenario."


Economists at investment bank UBS said that the eurozone economy
was proving resistant in the face of its current ascent because
the global economy remained solid and labour costs were tame.


With eurozone unemployment at the lowest level on record at 7.3
percent and falling, they warned that emerging signs of labour
shortages could drive wages higher and make life more difficult
for exporters already struggling to deal with the euro's
strength.


However, with eurozone growth chugging ahead, many economists are
lifting their exchange rate forecasts.


"We expect the euro to benefit from ongoing relatively healthy
eurozone growth and from higher eurozone interest rates," Global
Inisght's Archer said.


"Against this background, we are likely to revise our euro
projections up in our May forecast to 1.42 dollars at end-2007
and 1.48 dollars at end-2008," he added.

