

Rafa Benitez is refusing to be drawn into mind games with Jose
Mourinho ahead of Liverpool's crunch Champion's League semi-final
encounter with Chelsea.


Mourinho has indicated that Portuguese defender Ricardo Carvalho
will not be able to play at Anfield on Tuesday after picking up a
knee injury in Saturday's 2-2 draw against Bolton.


Benitez himself rested several key players as his side lost 2-1
at UEFA Cup chasing Portsmouth, but is in no mood to start taking
Mourinho's words on injuries as gospel.


Benitez said: "Jose was saying similar things before the game
last Wednesday. I will wait until I see their team sheet before I
start hearing who is injured.


"I rested players for this game, not because we did not want to
win the game but because sometimes you cannot play a full team."


Benitez gave his starting eleven a comprehensive overhaul for the
trip to Fratton Park in preparation for their bid to reach a
second Champion's League final in three seasons


Steven Gerrard, Jamie Carragher, John Arne Riise, Javier
Mascherano, Pepe Reina and Daniel Agger were all given the day
off while Dirk Kuyt was named amongst the substitutes.


Benitez handed a debut to young Argentine full-back Emiliano
Insua, Gabriel Paletta was given a first Premiership start in
almost five months and Jerzy Dudek was handed a rare place in
goal.


For the first 45 minutes the Reds failed to look like a side
sitting comfortably in third place in the Premiership and on the
verge of earning a trip to Athens on May 23.


Portsmouth, desperate to claim European qualification for the
first time in their 109-year history, were quickest out of the
blocks and took an early lead through Zimbabwean Benjani
Mwaruwari.


A long clearance was pumped up the field by David James and
Liverpool's patchwork defence was left fully exposed as both
Paletta and Sami Hyypia allowed Benjani to pounce on the bouncing
ball and beat Dudek.


Things were soon to get worse for Benitez's side as Niko Kranjcar
produced a moment of real quality to double Portsmouth's lead.


Former Arsenal defender Lauren put the Croatian on his way with a
beautiful cross field pass for Kranjcar to control with his chest
before slotting past Dudek with precision.


Liverpool did claw one back in the second half with a Hyypia
header from veteran Robbie Fowler's corner, but the scale of the
changes Benitez had made before the game meant they could never
find a real rhythm to trouble Pompey.


Benitez added: "We were still strong. Our two strikers were very
good in the second half and it was difficult for their defenders.


"From our point of view we made some stupid mistakes for their
goals. In the first half we had control and two chances on the
counter attack. I think we deserved more."


Portsmouth were well worth their victory and stand just two games
away from a maiden appearance in European competitions.


The south coast side stand in seventh place, the last of the UEFA
Cup spots, but with a trip to Everton and the visit of Arsenal to
come, boss Harry Redknapp insists it will be a tall order.


"We have kept our season going, Arsenal come here on the last day
of the season and it will be tough," said Redknapp.


"Tottenham with the squad they have should be sitting comfortably
in fifth or sixth. They have got a game in hand but we will keep
going.


"Rafa did us a favour by leaving out some of his strikers but you
can understand that. Tuesday is a big game and most managers
would have done the same.


"They still had people like Craig Bellamy and Xabi Alonso who are
class players. Alonso probably cost more than my whole team put
together."

