

England's Luke Donald maintained his one-shot lead in the 6.3
million-dollar Byron Nelson Championship on Saturday with a
three-under 67 in the third round.


Donald shrugged off a slow start, picking up three strokes on the
back nine for a 10-under 54-hole total of 200.


He also stretched his streak of rounds in the 60s in this
tournament to 11.


"I got off to a little bit of a slow start but stayed patient,
knew that there were some scoring opportunities out there, and
made some nice birdies on the back nine," Donald said.


Dallas-born Scott Verplank (66) was in second place at nine-under
201, with Michael Allen (64) another shot back in third.


England's Ian Poulter (65) was in fourth place on 204, while Phil
Mickelson (66) and Vijay Singh (69) were among a group on 205
that also included Japan's Ryuji Imada.


Donald made his big move with three birdies in four holes
starting at the 13th, but a bogey at the par-three 17th, where he
pulled his tee shot into a bunker, cut his lead.


Play was suspended for one minute late in the round to honour
former tournament host Byron Nelson, who died seven months ago.


As much as Donald would like to win, Dallas-born Verplank is also
motivated to claim victory in his hometown event. At 42, the
four-time tour winner knows he cannot be sure of getting many
more chances.


"Byron was so great to me for the 25 years I knew him," Verplank
said. "I ended up playing probably half a dozen rounds with him.
He was one of the finest gentlemen I've ever met. Because I'm
from here, and this tournament has his name on it, it's a pretty
big deal to me."


Verplank made his debut here in 1986 and has missed the
tournament only once since. His best finish was runner-up in
2001.


But don't count out Allen, a 48-year-old battler who has never
won on tour. Despite his age, Allen thinks he is a better player
than ever.


"We'll see how my nerves hold up," he said.


Ian Poulter was in fourth place, four shots behind, while Phil
Mickelson and Vijay Singh were not completely out of contention,
five back.

