

Adam Gilchrist is unlike most people's idea of a typical
Australian cricketer - except when it comes to his batting.


Indeed, he is arguably the most aggressive batsman ever to wear
the green and gold as his breathtaking, man-of-the-match innings
of 149 against Sri Lanka in Saturday's World Cup Final here at
Kensington Oval showed.


Gilchrist's 15th hundred in 268 matches at this level was
arguably the left- handed opener's best.


In a match reduced to 38 overs per side, he flayed the Sri Lanka
attack to all parts with a series of cleanly struck and mainly
textbook boundaries in a devastating 104-ball innings featuring
eight sixes and 13 fours, hands high on the blade as he swung
with serene assurance.


Australia's total of 281 for four would have been impressive off
50 overs - off 38 it was jaw-dropping and set up his side's
53-run win on the Duckworth/Lewis method for rain-affected
matches.


Gilchrist admitted a third successive World Cup triumph was an
incredible achievement for the all-conquering Australians who
came in to the tournament having lost two consecutive series to
England and New Zealand.


"It was really pleasing to do it on an important day. I've been
getting a lot of starts, 30s and 40s, but hadn't converted and
that was really frustrating," said Gilchrist after a final marred
by rain.


"It's terrific. The guys have worked so hard. It's been a really
satisfying tournament for us and a great way to say goodbye to
Glenn McGrath and (coach) John Buchanan (who are both retiring).


"It's closure for some really great careers.


"It's been a great campaign because there were lots of question
marks over our character coming into the World Cup."


Gilchrist's was the kind of display that has long since seen the
Western Australia gloveman regarded as the most dangerous batsman
currently playing one- day international cricket.


Away from the field Gilchrist, a World Cup winner in 1999 and
2003, is a quietly spoken individual, willing to praise team-
mates and opponents alike, and far removed from the stereotype of
the brash, outspoken Aussie.


And his sense of sportsmanship eventually led him to adopt the
unusual practice amongst modern cricketers of 'walking' when
caught by either an opposing keeper or in the slips rather than
wait for the umpire's decision.


Gilchrist's move also went against the grain of Australian
tradition, with even legendary batsman Don Bradman content for
the umpire to raise his finger rather than give himself out.


In the Test arena, Gilchrist has revolutionised the role of
wicket-keeper. In the past a stumper such as England great Alan
Knott, who averaged around the 30-mark with the bat, was rightly
considered a valuable all-rounder.


By contrast Gilchrist, usually batting at seven in the five-day
game, has a Test average of nearly 49 with 17 hundreds in 90
Tests.


That average puts him only just below the 50 benchmark that is
considered the hallmark of enduring greatness as a batsman.


Gilchrist is likely to have retired by the time of the next World
Cup in the sub-continent in 2011.


If this was his last World Cup match, he finished with a flourish
even by his high standards.

