

Australia captain Ricky Ponting celebrated a third successive
World Cup triumph here on Saturday and admitted it was an
achievement which will live with him forever.


"I will never forget this day," said Ponting after the 53-run win
over Sri Lanka in the Kensington Oval final which was cut short
by the rain and ended in confusion.


"It's an amazing feeling to be involved with this group of
players and I'm especially proud of our achievement."


Australia won all 11 matches they played at the World Cup and
have not lost a match in the tournament since the 1999 edition in
England.


"We played unbelievable cricket in this World Cup. We didn't have
a close game at all in the competition and that's all credit to
the guys."


The victory was set-up by a final record score of 149 by Adam
Gilchrist who set the platform for the 281-4 total off 38 overs.


"Gilly was the difference today," said the skipper.


"But all the players have kept challenging themselves and the
results have been getting better."


Gilchrist admitted a third successive World Cup triumph was an
incredible achievement for the all-conquering Australians who
came in to the tournament having lost two consecutive series to
England and New Zealand.


"It was really pleasing to do it on an important day. I've been
getting a lot of starts, 30s and 40s, but hadn't converted and
that was really frustrating," said Gilchrist after a final marred
by rain.


"It's terrific. The guys have worked so hard. It's been a really
satisfying tournament for us and a great way to say goodbye to
Glenn McGrath and (coach) John Buchanan (who are both retiring).


"It's closure for some really great careers.


"It's been a great campaign because there were lots of question
marks over our character coming into the World Cup."


Australia coach John Buchanan admitted his team were a class
above everybody else.


"It's like day and night between us and the rest," said Buchanan.


"It's a fairytale to win three World Cups in a row. It really is
an unbelievable achievement and it's due to the team and the
support team.


"We have great players and when you have great players this is
what happens."

