

Australia captain Ricky Ponting said he was excited by the team's
future prospects after they'd won an unprecedented third straight
World Cup Final, even though their victory against Sri Lanka
could be seen as a watershed match.


Australia's 53-run rain-affected win here at Kensington Oval
marked 37-year-old fast bowler and man of the tournament Glenn
McGrath's last game before retirement.


And Saturday's victory was built around a record individual World
Cup Final score of 149 by 35-year-old wicket-keeper Adam
Gilchrist, who might also have quit come the 2011 World Cup in
the sub-continent.


But Ponting, 33 later this year and, along with McGrath and
Gilchrist, one of only three men to have appeared in three World
Cup winning teams (McGrath was also on the losing side when Sri
Lanka won in 1996), was confident that Australia could weather a
season of farewells.


Australia's 5-0 Ashes thrashing of England, wrapped up in
January, featured the end of batsmen Damien Martyn and Justin
Langer's international careers before McGrath and legendary leg-
spinner Shane Warne, already out of the one-day game, took their
leave of five-day cricket at the end of the series.


But Ponting, having seen Australia extend their unbeaten streak
at World Cups to a remarkable 29 games with 23 straight wins, had
no fears over taking the team forward.


"I'm not worried about that at all. We've had Justin, Shane,
Glenn and Damien Martyn leave the Test team at the end of our
summer and I'm actually looking at it as a more exciting time in
my career to tell the truth.


"You're obviously disappointed about losing the greats of the
game, but when you get younger guys in and around the team it's a
really exciting time.


"It's going to be a real challenge for the senior players to make
sure they elevate their games and drag the younger guys along
with them.


"I remember when I first came into the side in 1995 I had some
excellent senior players to sit back, look at and admire and
watch the way they go about their cricket," Ponting, at the
crease when Gilchrist broke his previous final best of 140 not
out, set four years ago, added.


"That's the example we need to be setting for the younger guys.


"I fully expect us to win every game we play, it doesn't matter
what the make up of the game is and when we get some of the
younger guys coming into the Test and one-day side in the next
few months I will still expect us to win.


"Our domestic cricket at home is very strong. I've seen a lot of
the young players play so when they do come into the side I'd
like to think our performances won't drop off at all."


Australia's winning side on Saturday featured 24-year-old express
fast bowler Shaun Tait, 25-year-old all-rounder Shane Watson and
26-year-old batsman Michael Clarke, tipped as a future captain of
his country.


Ponting, reflecting on Australia's achievement in the Caribbean,
said: "To go through and play the cricket we have and make other
very good international teams look pretty ordinary at different
times, everybody should be proud of what we've achieved."

