

How the action unfolded at the 2007 World Cup which came to an
end on Saturday after seven long weeks:


March 11


Sir Garfield Sobers opens the ninth World Cup at a colourful
ceremony in Trelawny in Jamaica.


March 12


Australia skipper Ricky Ponting hits back at Sunil Gavaskar after
the former India captain said the Aussies were unpopular winners.
Ponting says Gavaskar is 'high and mighty'.


March 13


West Indies beat Pakistan by 54 runs at Sabina Park in the
tournament opener. Gavaskar won't relent in his attacks saying he
wouldn't be surprised if an Aussie got 'whacked' in a bar.


March 14


Australia crush Scotland by 203 runs to get their title defence
off to a flying start with Ponting hitting his 23rd career one-
day century. Kenya beat Canada by seven wickets.


March 15


Sri Lanka beat Bermuda by 243 runs, the second biggest winning
margin in World Cup history, but fellow debutants Ireland clinch
a thrilling last ball tie with Zimbabwe. Former Zimbabwe star
Andy Flower calls for sporting sanctions against the Mugabe
regime.


March 16


Herschelle Gibbs makes history by becoming the first player to
hit six sixes in an over in an international one-dayer as South
Africa pile up 353 in just 40 overs to beat the Dutch by 221
runs. New Zealand beat England by six wickets.


March 17


Sensational Saturday as Ireland beat Pakistan by three wickets to
send the 1992 champions out of the tournament. Bangladesh secure
only their second win over India with a five-wicket triumph.


March 18


Tournament rocked by death of Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer who was
found unconscious on floor of his Kingston hotel room. Woolmer
had told of the stresses of the job in the light of his side's
defeat to Ireland. Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq quits one-day
cricket and gives up captaincy. On the field, England beat Canada
but Andrew Flintoff dropped and stripped of vice- captaincy.
Australia crush Netherlands by 229 runs to reach the Super
Eights.


March 19


India beat Bermuda by 257 runs, the biggest winning margin in the
history of one-dayers, after making 413-5, the highest ever World
Cup total. West Indies become the second team through to next
round with six-wicket win against Zimbabwe.


March 20


Jamaican police say they are treating Woolmer death as
suspicious. On the field, New Zealand reach the Super Eights with
a win against Kenya while South Africa also coast into the second
round with a win over Scotland


March 21


Ireland make sure of a historic place in the Super Eights after
Pakistan beat Zimbabwe. Sri Lanka are virtually assured of their
spot in the second round with a comprehensive win against
Bangladesh.


March 22


Police in Jamaica say Woolmer was strangled to death and a murder
hunt is under way. Despite the murder, the ICC says the
tournament will continue. New Zealand secure a third win with
victory over Kenya while Scotland end with the Group A wooden
spoon after losing to the Netherlands.


March 23


Pakistan team all provide DNA samples in the Woolmer
investigation as speculation increases that the death was linked
to match-fixing. India are on the verge of being knocked out
after losing to Sri Lanka, their second defeat in three matches.
West Indies cruise past Ireland by eight wickets.


March 24


Inzamam and assistant coach Mushtaq Ahmed questioned in the
Woolmer investigation, but both insist it is routine and they
leave for home later in the day with the rest of the team.
Australia beat South Africa by 83 runs while England make the
Super Eights with a comfortable win over Kenya.


March 25


Bangladesh beat Bermuda by seven wickets to reach the Super
Eights for the first time and condemn India to an early exit.


March 26


Rest day at the tournament. Investigation into Woolmer murder
goes on with Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields, the
man leading the hunt, believing that it's highly unlikely a local
was responsible for the slaying.


March 27


Second round Super Eights get underway. Matthew Hayden makes 158,
the highest World Cup score by an Australian, as his team piles
up 322 against West Indies in Antigua but rain forces match into
reserve day.


March 28


Australia complete a 103-run win over West Indies. South Africa
secure a nervy one-wicket win over Sri Lanka in a match which
sees Lasith Malinga make history by becoming the first bowler to
take four wickets in four balls in an international game.


March 29


West Indies face elimination from the tournament after losing by
seven wickets to New Zealand. Captain Brian Lara forced to defend
selection policy after Andy Roberts, the former Test bowler,
claims that the five-man selection panel has had little input
into the team.


March 30


England defeat Ireland by 48 runs in their opening Super Eights
match. The fallout from India's disastrous World Cup continues
with Ian Chappell telling Sachin Tendulkar it's time to quit
while Anil Kumble retires from one-day cricket.


March 31


Australia defeat Bangladesh by 10 wickets in a rain-affected
match in Antigua where ground staff struggled to get the outfield
playable and were reduced at one stage to using old sponges to
soak up excess water. Glenn McGrath takes 3-16 and becomes the
World Cup's most successful bowler with 57 career victims.


April 1


Sanath Jayasuriya hits his 25th one-day international century as
Sri Lanka inflict a third successive defeat on the West Indies.
Former Windies fast bowler Michael Holding calls for Lara to step
down as skipper. In Lahore, meanwhile, a memorial service is held
for Bob Woolmer.


April 2


New Zealand maintain their perfect record with a nine-wicket
cruise past Bangladesh. In Kingston, the investigation into the
death of Woolmer drags on with detectives revealing they are
studying the possibility that poison was used to incapacitate the
Pakistan coach before he was strangled.


April 3


South Africa beat Ireland by seven wickets at Guyana where there
was another poor attendance. Worried by the fallout from the
elimination of India and Pakistan, tourist chiefs in Barbados,
where the two had been scheduled to play, set-up a task force to
try and entice fans from other countries.


April 4


Greg Chappell resigns as India coach following the World Cup
debacle. In Antigua, Sri Lanka secure a last-ball, two-run win
over England which boosts their semi-final hopes. A memorial
service is held for Woolmer in Cape Town.


April 5


Rest day in the Super Eights. Bangladesh coach Dav Whatmore
admits he would be interested in the vacant India coach's job.
West Indies legend Sir Vivian Richards blasts organisers for
allegedly destroying the spirit of the competition.


April 6


Good Friday rest day. India begins inquest into the country's
dismal World Cup campaign with the team's superstars told to cut
back on their commercial dealings. Bangladesh open inquiry into
Whatmore's link with India vacancy. Pakistan team spokesman PJ
Mir claims team's preparations were affected by a fixation on
religion.


April 7


Bangladesh defeat world number one South Africa by 67 runs to
register their second big win of the tournament. Organisers, in a
desperate attempt to bring in more fans, drop restrictions on
musical instruments in grounds and allow the right of re-entry.


April 8


Australia continue their relentless march to the semi-finals by
beating England by seven wickets. Kevin Pietersen hit a century
for England but Aussie speedster Shaun Tait was voted man of the
match for three crucial wickets. Rahul Dravid keeps his job as
India skipper.


April 9


New Zealand go top of the Super Eights table with a convincing
129-run win over Ireland. New India manager Ravi Shastri said he
wants to see a happy team under his guidance.


April 10


West Indies lose to South Africa by 67 runs, a defeat which
prompts Lara to confirm that he will retire from one-day
international cricket at the end of the World Cup.


April 11


England beat Bangladesh by four wickets to stay on course for the
semi-finals. Sri Lanka suffer blow on eve of clash against New
Zealand when leading wicket- taker Lasith Malinga is ruled out
with an ankle injury.


April 12


Sri Lanka comfortably defeat New Zealand by six wickets to move
into second place in the Super Eights table. Australia captain
Ricky Ponting joins the call for the seven-week World Cup to be
shortened.


April 13


Australia bowl out Ireland for just 91 and win by nine wickets to
book their place in the semi-finals. Such is their dominance that
the game is wrapped up by lunchtime. Younis Khan turns down
chance to take over as Pakistan skipper from Inzamam-ul-Haq after
being outraged by the public reaction to the team's World Cup
exit.


April 14


New Zealand beat South Africa by five wickets to reach the semi-
finals, a victory which also ensures Sri Lanka's passage to the
last four. Mohammad Yousuf says he's willing to take over as
Pakistan skipper.


April 15


One month after Woolmer's death, Jamaican police admit that they
are no nearer to identifying a suspect and that the investigation
will be a 'long haul'. Ireland beat Bangladesh by 74 runs to move
off bottom of the Super Eights table.


April 16


Australia beat Sri Lanka by seven wickets as the Asian side
controversially leave out Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan.
South Africa skipper Graeme Smith says he plans to dismiss
compatriot Kevin Pietersen early in the following day's grudge
clash with England.


April 17


After all the hype, Smith catches Pietersen for just three as
South Africa humiliate England by nine wickets wrapping up
victory and a place in the semi- finals with 30 overs to spare.
England skipper Michael Vaughan insists he won't resign.


April 18


Sri Lanka bowl out Ireland for just 77, the sixth lowest total in
World Cup history, and wrap up an easy eight-wicket win in
Grenada. Lara says he won't be hurried over making a decision
over his future as speculation increases that Ramnaresh Sarwan
will take over as skipper.


April 19


West Indies beat Bangladesh by 99 runs but the win is followed by
Lara's announcement that he will retire from international
cricket after the team's last game of the World Cup against
England in Bridgetown on April 21. Duncan Fletcher resigns as
England coach. Shoaib Malik is confirmed as new Pakistan captain.


April 20


Peter Moores is named as England's new coach to replace Fletcher.
Dav Whatmore announces that he will quit as Bangladesh coach but
will stay to oversee the Test and one-day series against India in
May. Sachin Tendulkar and and Sourav Ganguly are dropped from the
India one-day squad. Australia conclude their Super Eights
campaign with a thumping 215-run win over New Zealand.


April 21


Lara's last match ends in disappointment when England beat West
Indies by one wicket in the teams' last Super Eights match. Clive
Lloyd joins in the goodbyes by announcing his retirement as an
ICC match referee.


April 22


Matthew Hayden begins the mind games ahead of Australia's semi-
final against South Africa by claiming that the Proteas are
intimidated by the world champions.


April 23


Bennett King resigns as West Indies coach. Pakistan vice-captain
Younis Khan, still traumatised by World Cup events, pulls out of
the three-match series against Sri Lanka in Abu Dhabi in May.


April 24


Sri Lanka cruise past New Zealand by 81 runs in Kingston to reach
the World Cup final with Mahela Jayawardene making a century and
Muttiah Muralitharan grabbing four wickets. Stephen Fleming
stands down as Black Caps' one-day skipper. The Jamaica coroner
orders that Woolmer's body can be released to his family in South
Africa.


April 25


The eagerly-awaited semi-final between Australia and South Africa
is a huge letdown as the Proteas are reduced to 27-5 before being
bowled out for 149. The Aussies win by seven wickets and reach
their third consecutive final.


April 26


ICC chief executive Malcolm Speed admits the seven-week
tournament is too long and attempts will be made to trim it by
seven to 10 days for the next tournament in 2011.


April 27


On the eve of the final, Ricky Ponting dreams of repeating the
140 not out he made in the final against India in 2003. Sri Lanka
skipper Mahela Jayawardene insists the Australians can be beaten.
"They are only human," he says.


April 28


Rain shortens the final to a 38-over-per-side affair which
Australia win by 53 runs with Adam Gilchrist smashing a final
record 149. The match ends in confusion when Sri Lanka's batsmen
walk off with three overs left after being offered the light in
the gloom of the Kensington Oval. Australia celebrate, the
groundsmen bring on the podiums for the presentation ceremony but
the umpires insist the match is completed. Three overs later,
Australia are still the winners and can celebrate their third
successive World Cup title.

