

Japan and Saudi Arabia agreed on Saturday to forge a "multi-
layered partnership" beyond oil, while urging Iran to take a
constructive approach to resolve the crisis over its nuclear
ambition.


Japanese Prime Minister Shizo Abe, who arrived in Riyadh earlier
the same day on the first leg of his Middle East tour, held talks
with King Abdullah at his palace, a Japanese government official
said.


Abe, fresh from his first official visit to the United States for
a summit with President George W. Bush on Friday, will also visit
Egypt, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on his
five-day tour.


"The two sides confirmed that they will aim at a multi-layered
partnership between Japan and Saudi Arabia," the government
official said.


"Prime Minister Abe told the king that he wants to broaden the
relations which had been concentrated on oil," the official said.
"And the king replied that he also wants to deepen the relations
in such a way."


Earlier in the day, Abe unveiled the proposal when he made a
speech at an economic forum attended by more than 100 Saudi
businessmen and a 180-strong business delegation from Tokyo.


"I'm sure that it is a mutual benefit for Japan and Saudi Arabia
to further expand relations surrounding oil, which is the base of
our solid relationship," Abe told them.


"My purpose of a visit to the Middle East, however, is to form a
multi-layered relationship" covering not only energy security but
also political, business and cultural links.


"I want to open a new era of relations between Japan and the
Middle East.   I would like to activate our wide-ranged,
strategic dialogue," the Japanese premier said.


On the regional diplomatic front, the premier and the king
jointly urged Iran to follow UN sanctions and cooperate
constructively with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the
Japanese official said.


"It is necessary to resolve this issue peacefully," King Abdullah
told Abe, according to the official.


The UN Security Council imposed a second round of limited
sanctions on Iran in March over Tehran's refusal to halt uranium
enrichment. Washington accuses Iran of aiming to develop nuclear
weapons and of supporting insurgents in Iraq.


The two also agreed to cooperate in helping reconstruct Iraq and
called on the war-torn nation to "promote national unity and
equality among all categories of the Iraqi people," the official
said.


Abe's visit comes just a day after the desert kingdom said it had
arrested a ring of alleged Al-Qaeda militants plotting airborne
attacks on oil facilities and army bases, underscoring Japanese
worries about stability in the region.


Abe invited the king and Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdul Aziz to
Japan, while proposing to allow the oil-rich kingdom to use
Japan's oil stockpiling facilities in the southern Japanese
island of Okinawa.


The two also agreed to speed up free trade talks between Japan
and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), which groups Saudi Arabia
with Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the UAE.


Japan and the the Gulf Arab nations began free trade talks last
year aiming to reach a deal in 2008.


"The Japanese government will try to create an accord with good
contents as soon as possible," Abe told the economic forum.


Japan is increasingly concerned by potential threats to its
energy supply. It has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its own
and relies for more than 70 percent of its oil supply on the four
Gulf states which Abe is due to visit.


This is the second visit to the Middle East by a Japanese premier
in less than a year. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi,
travelled to Israel, the Palestinian territories and Jordan in
July last year.

