

Australia captain Ricky Ponting celebrated a third successive
World Cup triumph here on Saturday and admitted it was an
achievement which will live with him forever.


"I will never forget this day," said Ponting after the 53-run win
over Sri Lanka in the Kensington Oval final which was cut short
by the rain and ended in confusion.


"It's an amazing feeling to be involved with this group of
players and I'm especially proud of our achievement."


Australia won all 11 matches they played at the World Cup and
have not lost a match in the tournament since the 1999 edition in
England.


"We played unbelievable cricket in this World Cup. We didn't have
a close game at all in the competition and that's all credit to
the guys."


The victory was set up by a final record score of 149 by Adam
Gilchrist who set the platform for the 281-4 total off a rain-
reduced 38 overs.


"Gilly was the difference today," said the skipper.


"But all the players have kept challenging themselves and the
results have been getting better."


Gilchrist admitted a third successive World Cup triumph was an
incredible achievement for the all-conquering Australians who
came in to the tournament having lost two consecutive series to
England and New Zealand.


"It was really pleasing to do it on an important day. I've been
getting a lot of starts, 30s and 40s, but hadn't converted and
that was really frustrating," said Gilchrist after a final marred
by rain.


"It's terrific. The guys have worked so hard. It's been a really
satisfying tournament for us and a great way to say goodbye to
Glenn McGrath and (coach) John Buchanan (who are both retiring).


"It's closure for some really great careers.


"It's been a great campaign because there were lots of question
marks over our character coming into the World Cup."


The final ended in farce when the Sri Lanka batsmen Chaminda Vaas
and Lasith Malinga walked off with three overs left after being
offered the light in the gathering gloom.


The Australians celebrated victory and even the podiums were
brought onto the pitch for the presentations but umpires Steve
Bucknor and Aleem Dar ordered the match to be finished in
appalling conditions.


"Gilly was brilliant. He took the game away from us," said Sri
Lanka skipper Mahela Jayawardene.


"We got to the point where we were keeping up but then another
cloud came along. Australia were just too good for us. They were
very professional. It was a tough ask with the weather and we
were chasing the game."


Glenn McGrath finished his career with a third World Cup winners
medal but admitted he would not have second thoughts about his
decision.


"I'm pretty happy with the way things have finished," said the
veteran fast bowler who finished with a record 26 wickets in the
Caribbean tournament and 71 in his World Cup career.


"I think that with retirement just around the corner I enjoyed
things even more. It's been a long career and I have loved every
minute of it.


"I'll miss playing and the guys but it will be nice to spend time
with my family."


Australia coach John Buchanan admitted his team were a class
above everybody else.


"It's like day and night between us and the rest," said Buchanan.


"It's a fairytale to win three World Cups in a row. It really is
an unbelievable achievement and it's due to the team and the
support team.


"We have great players and when you have great players this is
what happens."

