

Environmental crusader and former US vice president Al Gore on
Saturday accused the Canadian government of preparing a
fraudulent emissions cutback plan, drawing a sharp response from
Ottowa.


In Toronto to present his global-warming film "An Inconvenient
Truth," Gore sharply criticized the new strategy unveiled
Thursday by the Canadian environment minister, John Baird.


The strategy aims to cut greenhouse-gas emissions linked to
global warming by 150 megatonnes, or 20 percent, by 2020.


However, the cutbacks would be based on emission levels in 2006,
rather than 1990, the reference year for the Kyoto Protocol, the
United Nations pact ratified by 168 countries, including Canada,
and aimed at reducing the emissions.


The United States is among those states which have not ratified
it.


Gore criticized Canada's plan for lacking defined targets for
emission reductions.


"I'm hearing that a reduction in intensity is going to be
presented to the Canadian people as a legitimate policy. In my
opinion it is a complete and total fraud. It is designed to
mislead the Canadian people," Gore said.


Nevertheless, he admitted he had "no right to interfere in your
decisions."


In a strongly worded statement, Baird said it was "regrettable
that the former US vice president decided to speak out without
ever having been briefed on the contents of our plan."


"It is difficult to accept criticism from someone who preaches
about climate change, but who never submitted the Kyoto Protocol
to a vote in the United States Senate," the environment minister
said.


"The fact is our plan is vastly tougher than any measures
introduced by the administration of which the former vice
president was a member," he said.


"I am ready to meet with Mr. Gore at any time to discuss the
climate change threat and our government's tough plan to reduce
Canada's emissions."


Baird, in announcing the plan Thursday, said the Kyoto targets
which were agreed by a previous Liberal government in 1998 and
ratified in 2002 were unattainable.


Canada had agreed under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce carbon-
dioxide emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012, but
emissions have instead increased by 35 percent.

