

The Estonian government has speeded up plans to rehouse a Soviet-
era war memorial in a bid to defuse tensions over its removal
that erupted into deadly riots, officials said Sunday.


"The Estonian government will begin preparatory works today
(Sunday) at the military cemetery in central Tallinn to relocate
the Bronze Soldier," the foreign ministry said in a statement.


The 2.5-metre (eight-feet) high statue was removed early Friday
from the site in central Tallinn where it had stood for decades,
after rioters raged through the capital the night before.


One person, a Russian citizen, was killed in the clashes, which
erupted anew Friday night and which the authorities here have
denounced as vandalism having nothing to do with the war
monument.


More than 150 people were injured in the two nights of violence
and nearly 1,000 have been temporarily detained, many of them
under-age.


Forty-six people have been placed under arrest pending the start
of formal investigations, police said Sunday.


Estonians see the bronze statue as a symbol of 50 years of Soviet
occupation following World War II, while Russians see it as a
sacred memorial to the millions of Red Army soldiers who died
fighting the Nazis.


"The government plans to move faster with the relocation of the
monument to the new site. It may be done by May 8," government
spokeswoman Inga Jagomae told AFP.


Estonians mark the anniversary of victory over the Nazis in World
War II on May 8, while the country's ethnic Russian community,
which makes up a quarter of the population of 1.34 million,
celebrates the end of the war the following day.


Tallinn was calm overnight Saturday, with police preventing
crowds from forming and conducting body searches at random of
people who ventured out into the streets.


Six knives and a number of iron bars were confiscated, one police
officer was quoted by the Baltic News Service (BNS) as saying.


In the town of Narva, near the northeastern border with Russia,
around 50 young people, most of them minors, were preventively
detained for "aggressive behaviour", a police spokeswoman told
BNS.


And in Kohtla-Jarve, another northeastern town which like Narva
has only a small percentage of ethnic Estonian inhabitants,
police detained a man for carrying a hand grenade in his pocket.

