

Jose Mourinho has urged Chelsea to take out their Premiership
title frustrations on Liverpool in Tuesday's Champions League
semi-final.


The west Londoners saw their hopes of a third consecutive league
crown all but evaporate after they were held to a surprise 2-2
home draw by Bolton on Saturday, leaving them five points adrift
of leaders Manchester United.


Mourinho admits that result has dented his side's confidence
ahead of the trip to Anfield, where they hope to defend the 1-0
lead secured by last week's first leg.


But the Portuguese insists Chelsea have the necessary mental
strength to shrug off their domestic disappointment and book a
place in their first ever Champions League final.


He said: "I feel sad at the moment but I also feel that we have a
big game on Tuesday and the best thing in our situation is that
we won't have much time to be sad.


"I think it is always better to go into a big game after a win
because happiness helps your physical condition.


"But this is a completely different situation: for example, when
we lost the semi-final two years ago, we beat Bolton and
celebrated the title two days before.


"This time, we lose two crucial points against Bolton but maybe
now we go there (to Liverpool), win the tie and go to the final."


Mourinho's words may have been bullish, but his mood seemed far
from assured. The Blues manager knows he faces a huge challenge
in lifting his demoralised players and he must also negotiate a
potentially treacherous evening without his totemic centre-half
Ricardo Carvalho.


The Portugal international suffered a knee injury after a
collision midway through the first half and his absence will
force Mourinho into an awkward re- shuffle, with Dutch
international Khalid Boulahrouz likely to deputise at centre-
half.


Mourinho added: "The injury looks very bad. How big a blow is it?
He has been our best defender for the whole season, it's as
simple as that.


"We lost in Liverpool in the Premiership without him and now we
must go there without him again. In that moment, we had to play
with Paolo Ferreira at centre- back but at least now we have
better options in that area."


Chelsea might yet mark Mourinho's third, and most tumultuous,
season in London with European football's greatest prize, but the
Premiership now appears beyond them.


The Blues overturned Lubomir Michalik's opener with Salomon
Kalou's strike and Jussi Jaaskelainen's unfortunate own goal, but
Kevin Davies levelled early in the second period with a clinical
header.


Mourinho admits the title is now United's to lose with just three
games remaining, although he has not entirely given up hope of an
unlikely come-back.


"It is almost over," he said. "But in football, 'almost' is a big
word and it is not completely over. Mathematically there is a
chance and for as long as that chance is there, you have to
believe and chase the opportunity.


"United will feel very close at this moment and will not feel any
pressure. They can come to Stamford Bridge and lose and still be
champions. So they are very close to winning it. They have to
lose two matches and we must win all three."


Bolton's performance was a credit to their players, who refused
to be distracted by speculation over the future of manager Sam
Allardyce, who is expected to leave in the summer after eight
years in charge.


Allardyce did not appear for his post-match media duties - club
officials claimed he was ill - so it was left to his assistant
Sammy Lee to field enquiries.


"As far as we're concerned, it's all just speculation at the
moment," Lee said. "But this was a fantastic result for us. The
players are a great bunch and great characters and we have felt
for a long time that there's a misconception about our club.


"People seem to think we don't know what we're doing but we do
what we do very well and that's all credit to us."

