

Sri Lankan troops fired anti-aircraft guns in the capital early
Sunday, amid reports that Tamil Tiger rebels had entered the
city's airspace.


Troops manning key positions in the capital lit up the night sky
with a massive barrage of anti-aircraft fire that shook homes and
caused panic, residents said.


Security forces fired tracer bullets into the air and officials
said military units at key power stations, oil storage
facilities, a domestic airport and the city centre opened fire
with high-calibre anti-aircraft guns.


There was a second burst of firing 75 minutes later, when
authorities said they suspected the rebel aircraft was still
within the capital's air space.


Sri Lankan forces have been on high alert since the Tigers, whose
drawn-out campaign for an independent state for the island's
ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000 people dead,
carried out their first aerial strike last month.


Authorities responded to reports of approaching rebel planes by
switching off the electricity supply to the capital as millions
of Sri Lankans watched their side play Australia in the cricket
World Cup final.


"We are doing a search and that is why you are experiencing a
power cut," air force spokesman Ajantha Silva said. He said he
had no information about Tiger aircraft.


The power was restored about an hour later, but the anti-aircraft
fire continued.


Firemen were rushed to a suburb of the capital where residents
reported a fire near a fuel storage facility.


It was not immediately clear what caused the blaze, but residents
said at least three buildings had been damaged although the
storage tanks appeared to be intact.


Sri Lankan ordered a similar blackout Thursday after radar
spotted unidentified aircraft within the air space of the
island's only international airport, prompting authorities to
close the it temporarily.


The power outage came at a critical time for Sri Lanka's cricket
fans, with more than 14 million of the island's 19.5 million
population expected to watch the live broadcast of the finals in
Barbados.


Cricket is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and is seen as one of the
few unifying elements to cut through political and ethnic lines
amid escalating fighting between troops and Tamil Tiger rebels.

