

The picturesque Novodevichy cemetery where legendary cellist and
conductor Mstislav Rostropovich will be laid to rest contains the
graves of many Russian cultural and political figures.


Rostropovich, who fled Soviet persecution and made a dramatic
return to Russia in 1991, will lie alongside his two mentors,
celebrated composers Sergei Prokofiev and Dmitry Shostakovich.


Russia's first president Boris Yeltsin, who brought democracy and
capitalism to the country at a time of painful transition, was
buried in Novodevichy in a nostalgia-filled ceremony on
Wednesday.


The funeral services for Yeltsin and Rostropovich were both also
held in the Christ the Saviour cathedral, a massive marble-lined
church in central Moscow that was rebuilt in the 1990s.


The previous 19th-century cathedral on the site, which was built
to celebrate Russia's victory over Napoleon, was destroyed by
Soviet authorities in 1931 under Stalin and replaced by an open-
air swimming pool.


The cemetery is in the grounds of a 16th-century convent centred
around a golden-domed cathedral founded by Russia's tsars and
located on a bend in the Moscow river outside the city centre.


Among other famed musicians buried in the cemetery, which covers
6.4 hectares, are opera singer Fyodor Shalyapin, composer
Alexander Skryabin and pianist Nikolai Rubinstein.


Russian playwright Anton Chekhov and authors Nikolai Gogol and
Mikhail Bulgakov are also buried among the winding paths of the
cemetery, where many of the graves are overgrown.


Nikita Khrushchev, who was ousted from power in 1964, is also
buried in Novodevichy -- the only Soviet leader not to have been
interred on Red Square.


Other flamboyant characters buried in Novodevichy include
Alexander Lebed, a tough-talking Russian general who supported
Yeltsin during the August 1991 attempted coup and helped bring an
end to a disastrous war in Chechnya.


An empty vodka glass can be found by Lebed's statue and food and
drink are sometimes left on other graves, testifying to a Russian
tradition for honouring the memory of the dead.


Several of the graves have small wooden benches by the
gravestones for when the bereaved come after Easter in a Russian
Orthodox religious tradition.

