

A conference on the world's beleaguered NPT treaty against the
spread of nuclear weapons opens Monday in Vienna, at a time of an
escalating crisis over Iran's atomic program.


The conference on the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty also comes
as a deal to dismantle North Korea's nuclear program, which
unlike Iran has actually produced atomic bombs, has stalled.


A third major factor is that the NPT, a deal under which nuclear
weapons states agree to disarm while those nations without the
bomb agree not to seek it, is threatened by the new US strategy
to use pre-emptive force if judged necessary and Britain's
upgrading of its nuclear arsenal.


The NPT, which went into effect at the height of the Cold War in
1970 and was extended indefinitely in 1995, is reviewed every
five years. The last such meeting in May, 2005 failed to resolve
any key questions, with non-aligned countries and nuclear powers
bickering over an agenda.


The two-week meeting in Vienna is the first of a series of
"preparatory committee sessions" ahead of the next overall review
in 2010.


Experts agree that the NPT is ill adapted to the modern era,
where so-called rogue states seek to acquire a nuclear weapons
capacity by first developing peaceful programs under the terms of
the treaty, and that fixes should include tougher UN inspections
and automatic penalties for those who drop out of the treaty.


North Korea withdrew from the NPT in 2003, shortly after kicking
out United Nations inspectors. North Korea tested an atomic bomb
last October.


Iran justifies its nuclear work under Article IV of the NPT,
which guarantees "the inalienable right . . . to develop
research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful
purposes."


But the United States charges that Iran is using this as a cover
for the secret development of nuclear weapons, something that is
banned by the treaty.


Still, George Perkovich, a non-proliferation analyst at the
Washington-based Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, has
called the NPT "the most effective treaty in history," referring
to the fact that predictions made in the 1960s that there would
soon be 30-40 nuclear weapons states have not come to pass.


There are believed to be nine nuclear weapons states. They are
the five allowed under the NPT, Britain, China, France, Russia
and the United States, the one which withdrew from the treaty,
North Korea, and three nuclear states -- India, Pakistan and
Israel -- which have refused to sign it.


The preparatory session can not change the treaty but is expected
to focus on problems not just in fighting proliferation but in
getting the five original nuclear weapons states to live up to
their NPT commitment to disarm, something non-aligned states will
be stressing, diplomats and experts said.


"The risk of nuclear proliferation is too grave for the
international community to shirk its responsibilities," nuclear
and disarmement expert Rebecca Johnson wrote last week on her
Acronym Institute website.


She said the NPT, which has 188 signatory states, "has already
begun to unravel."


Felicity Hill, of the non-governmental organiztion the
International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN), told
AFP: "This meeting could build towards a successful 2010 Review
Conference but we must see progress on both non- proliferation
and disarmament."


But a diplomat in Vienna who closely follows the non-
proliferation regime said: "Given the inauspicious international
developments and the growing detritus of arms control agreements
cast aside, already expectations are being lowered for a
successful outcome to the preparatory committee."

