

Delta Air Lines is set to emerge from 19 months of bankruptcy
protection in another sign that one of the bleakest chapters for
the US airline industry may be coming to an end.


The third-largest US carrier could exit Chapter 11 bankruptcy as
early as Monday after a judge approved the final details of
reorganization, leaving Delta with some 2.5 billion dollars in
financing.


Delta and Northwest Airlines filed for creditor protection on the
same day in September 2005, which at the time left four of the
top six carriers in bankruptcy.


Since that time, the remaining carriers with the exception of
Northwest have emerged from court supervision and the financial
picture of the industry has markedly improved.


"This is an exciting day for everyone at Delta," said Gerald
Grinstein, Delta's chief executive after winning court approval
of the exit plan.


"Achieving a turnaround of this magnitude in little more than 19
months would not have been possible without the hard work and
dedication of Delta people worldwide, and the leadership, the
vision and the flawless execution of our plan by our outstanding
management team."


Delta lost 6.2 billion dollars in 2006 amid a hefty 5.4-billion
charge for reorganization.


The carrier posted a much narrower 130-million dollar loss in the
first quarter of 2007 but sees its financial picture improving
after major cost-cutting efforts.


"Delta has fundamentally transformed into a thriving industry
leader," said Grinstein.


"We are stronger -- financially, operationally, and in spirit --
and Delta is ready to return to its traditional leadership
position in this highly competitive industry."


The US airline industry has been struggling with its worst-ever
crisis since the September 11, 2001 attacks triggered a slump in
air travel, and carriers were hit with record-high fuel prices.


The Air Transport Association of America, a trade organization of
the leading US airlines, is projecting an overall net profit of
approximately four billion dollars for passenger and cargo
airlines in 2007 after earnings of between two and three billion
dollars in 2006.


A profitable 2006-2007 would be the first back-to-back period of
profitability since 1999-2000. US airlines lost a total of 10
billion dollars in 2005.


"In addition to a healthy revenue environment, US airlines are
seeing the results of painstaking, ongoing cost reduction efforts
and balance-sheet repair," said ATA chief economist John
Heimlich, who nonetheless said caution is warranted.


"Although the industry is optimistic and well positioned to move
forward, the reality is that events beyond airlines' control
could easily push them off course."


The traditional full service airlines such as Delta have been
hurt by competition from low-cost startups like Southwest and
JetBlue, which do not have "legacy" pension and health care costs
and often have lower wages as well.


To streamline, Delta has trimmed some five billion dollars from
operating costs compared to 2002 levels. This has included pay
cuts amounting to one billion dollars, including concessions from
pilots, and a reduction in the workforce from 66,500 in 2005 to
47,000.


Delta rejected a takeover bid last year from US Airways -- which
itself emerged from bankruptcy in a deal that merged with low-
cost carrier America West -- preferring to continue as a stand-
alone company.


Standard & Poor's rating service said Delta's prospects are
improving but that the airline will still have a low "B" credit
rating.


"Delta's relatively rapid and successful reorganization should
leave the airline with lower operating costs, improving revenue
generation, and a reduced debt load," said S&P analyst Philip
Baggaley.


"Still, the airline's credit profile and its anticipated 'B'
corporate credit rating continue to reflect also risks associated
with participation in the price-competitive, cyclical, and
capital-intensive airline industry; on below- average, albeit
improving, revenue generation; and on significant intermediate-
term debt and capital spending commitments."

