

Tony Kanaan, fresh from victory in the IndyCar race at Twin Ring
Motegi in Japan last weekend, captured the pole position for the
Kansas Lottery Indy 300.


The Brazilian knocked San Hornish off the pole with a lap at
214.188 miles per hour in a Dallara/Honda. Hornish's lap was
213.982 mph.


"When a driver gets a win and then gets some momentum, it's
always like that," Kanaan said. "It's one of those things in
racing you can't explain. It's a good feeling to be on the pole
here."


Kanaan broke a 15-race streak where either a Team Penske or
Target/Chip Ganassi Racing driver had won the pole.


Kanaan drives for Andretti Green Racing and it was his seventh
career pole, but his first since the 2004 Indianapolis 500.


Kanaan's recent success can help catapult the team into the month
of May at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, which opens up next
weekend for the buildup to the 91st Indianapolis 500 on May 27.


Two-time Indy 500 winner Helio Castroneves of Brazil was third at
213.817 mph, followed by Ganassi star Dan Wheldon of England at
213.812 mph. New Zealand's Scott Dixon rounded out the top five
at 213.783 mph.


The 1-1/2-mile Kansas Speedway has traditionally produced
exciting IndyCar racing. There have been five different winners
in five IndyCar races including Kanaan in 2005.


Kanaan is off to his best start since his championship season in
2004. He is second in the standings, three behind points leader
Wheldon after three races.


One of those drivers trying to get by Kanaan is defending
champion Hornish. He is hoping history repeats itself.


"We started second here last year and won the race, so maybe it's
a good omen we're starting second," Hornish said.


Milka Duno, the sports car racer from Venezuela, made her IndyCar
Series debut for SAMAX Racing. She starts last in the 21-car
field after running a lap at 208.256 mph.


But IndyCar officials thought she had a good day adapting to the
faster, open- wheel cars and staying out of trouble in the two
practice sessions.


Panther Racing crashed both of its race cars last week in Japan
but was able to mount a Herculean effort to rebuild them at the
team's shop in Indianapolis and both Vitor Meira and Kosuke
Matsuura qualified.

