

A proposed 11.1 billion dollar (9.2 billion US) takeover bid for
Australian airline Qantas was too low and failed to take into
account recently improved market conditions, a key investor said
Sunday.


Balanced Equity Management, which holds about 4.0 percent of the
profitable airline, confirmed it would not accept the current bid
of 5.45 dollars per share offered by private equity consortium
Airline Partners Australia (APA).


And it said the offer from APA, which includes Macquarie Bank
Ltd, Allco Finance Group Ltd and Allco Equity Partners Ltd, US
private equity giant Texas Pacific Group and Canada's Onex Group,
substantially undervalued the airline.


"We are committed not to accept the bid," managing director
Andrew Sisson told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


Sisson said the Australia stock market had climbed significantly
since the consortium first made its bid in December, while the
airline's profit estimates for 2007-08 had jumped by 36 percent.


"At the beginning, we were fairly close to the price we thought
was reasonable," he said.


"Things that have happened since then mean we are a long way from
the price.


"In fact, we think it (Qantas) represents one of the better value
stocks in the market at the moment, so we would be a buyer rather
than a seller."


If APA were to add another dollar to the price per share, the
offer would be "in the right ball park," he added.


Qantas' share price has increased by more than 20 percent since
the bid was launched. Other airlines have also soared, with
budget carrier Virgin Blue enjoying a 30 percent rise over the
same period and shares in Air New Zealand almost doubling.


Sisson said Qantas would continue to be a good value stock even
if the bid failed, despite warnings from the consortium that the
share price would drop if the offer did not proceed.


The consortium must gain 70 percent of shareholder acceptance by
May 4 to take control.


APA had previously set a minimum of 90 percent shareholder
acceptance for its bid, which has the support of the Qantas
board, but lowered its acceptance level after the bid ran into
turbulence.


Sisson said he expected the consortium to garner at least 50
percent of shareholder acceptances. Figures released Tuesday
showed that APA acceptances remained stalled at 27.8 percent.


APA has said it would not extend the offer beyond May 4, but it
would be automatically kept open for 14 days after that date if
it received 50 percent of acceptances.


Analysts have said that investors were cautious about accepting
the offer in part because they were unsure how to reinvest their
capital.


"I think shareholders are really taking a longer period of time
to assess deals, to think about how they are going to respond to
deals," Richard Hunt, head of investment banking at UBS, told Sky
News.


Qantas shares closed down on Friday at 5.32 dollars.

