

Giuseppe Costanzo has become a regular visitor to this tiny beach
resort on Croatia's coast. But unlike many tourists, the 63-year-
old Italian has come to take a seat in a dental clinic rather
than claim a spot on the sand.


The Italian, a retired postal worker from Latina, near Rome, says
he has come to have his teeth implants done by a Croatian
dentist.


"It's almost half the amount that I would have to pay in Italy,"
he says.


Costanzo is among the growing number of foreigners coming to
Croatia for dental surgery. Most are, like him, from Italy, but
others come from Germany, Sweden, Norway and more recently
Britain, for treatment on Croatia's glittering shore.


Goran Nedoklan, a local dental technician with a nose for
business, calls himself one of Croatia's "dental tourism"
pioneers.


Looking to boost his business after Croatia's war for
independence in the 1990s, he turned to Europe, initially placing
advertisements in Italian and German newspapers for his services.
He later set up a website before opening a liaison office in
Italy in 2005.


His clinic now employs two dentists, two surgeons, an
orthodontist and five dental technicians, and has a sophisticated
laboratory.


The initiative took off thanks in part to a good location. Vodice
is one of Croatia's favourite coastal tourism destinations thus
offering the chance for clients to get their teeth down and top
up on their tans.


Transport links are good and about to get better with low-cost
airlines starting to fly into nearby Zadar.


Nedoklan says nearly half of his patients now come from abroad.


"It's worth coming here even to put in a single crown and spend a
few days in a nice little coastal town," he says.


Whereas a porcelain tooth crown can cost about 500-600 pounds
(730-880 euros) in Britain, Nedoklan charges just 200 euros.


As well as fixing patients' teeth, Nedoklan arranges travel,
accommodation and, if desired, excursions to nearby national
parks including the pristine Kornati islands.


And his service doesn't stop when the patient goes home. The
Croatian has partnerships with clinics in Italy, Germany and
England for any follow up care.


Others have spotted the potential as the town has just opened
another dental centre catering to dental tourists.


Croatian tourist officials say Croatia has great potential in
health tourism. A growing sector of the market they are keen to
develop to prolong the July-August high season when most of the
eight million annual tourists -- nearly twice Croatia's
population -- visit.


"It's great for both Vodice and the whole region to have two
dental centres," Anita Franin, head of Vodice tourist board, told
AFP.


"It's an important breakthrough in our offer to tourists
previously focusing on the sea and sun," she stressed.


But Croatia is joining a growing list of former eastern bloc
countries offering cheap medical and dental care such as Hungary,
the Czech Republic, Poland and Romania.


Not to mention existing markets in Cuba, India and elsewhere in
Asia.


There are no official figures on the number of foreigners coming
to Croatia for dental services.


However, it is believed most of them visit the northern Adriatic
coastal port of Rijeka, just over the border from Italy, and the
nearby upmarket resort of Opatija. The area has 262 dentists,
nearly a quarter of 1,300 being registered in Croatia.


Apart from the growth in foreigners coming for dental work, those
seeking plastic surgery are also on the increase.


Mario Zambelli, head of a Croatian association of plastic
surgeons, says the number of those undergoing plastic surgery in
Croatia "has grown significantly" in recent years, though he
doesn't have exact figures.


Again, the pull factor is price.


"Compared with Italy, prices are on average 50 percent lower,"
said Zoran Zgaljardic, a facial plastic surgeon in Opatija, who
says around a third of his patients are Italians.


Operations most in demand are rhinoplasty or nose jobs,
liposuction, breast implants, and a growing number of men seeking
face-lifts.


"Breast implants are around 3,000 euros (here) while in Italy
you'd pay between 6,000 and 8,000 euros," says Zgaljardic.


However, Zgaljardic says the most important decision to make when
considering plastic surgery is not the price, but the level of
trust between clients and doctors.

