

Myanmar's dusty new capital Naypyidaw is filled with glum civil
servants shuttling between their stifling new apartment blocks
and faceless ministries.


But some wily business people are smiling.


Entrepreneurs from around the country have spotted an opportunity
and their profits are soaring at the handful of small businesses
that have opened in the purpose-built city.


The military junta which rules impoverished Myanmar began moving
to this remote central location in late 2005, and as more civil
servants arrive to fill up the ministries, they are searching for
places to shop, eat and relax.


Myoma Market, a dun-coloured block cut into red dirt hills, is
the commercial centre of Naypyidaw, a city that foreign diplomats
have described as a "construction site" or "resembling a
barrack".


It may not be paradise, but for Sai Lone Kyio, 30, it has offered
a chance to start a business he could not afford in the old
capital Yangon, 400 kilometres (250 miles) to the south.


"At first, nobody wanted to work here, now more people are living
here. I took a risk when I decided to come and invest here," he
says.


Sai Lone Kyio, who has one daughter and is originally from
eastern Shan state, opened his restaurant in April last year and
has seen profits soar.


"At first when I started my business here I sold about 10,000
kyat (eight dollars) but now sometimes I can sell 30,000 kyat in
one day," he says.


That's how much entry-level civil servants earn in an entire
month.


"My life is much better here. In Yangon I was just a vendor
because rent was so high."


Sai Lone Kyio is taking full advantage of the lack of
competition. He has also opened a beauty shop and has an
application pending for a vegetable stall.


His story is repeated throughout Myoma Market. Kyu Kyu Mar, 32,
opened a bra stall after her husband moved here for work, and has
seen profits triple since she opened up six months ago.


But not everyone is so impressed with the prospect of a new life
in Myanmar's central scrubs.


"I have the feeling the civil servants are very sad about the
situation there, it is very harsh," says one foreign economics
expert based in Yangon.


Civil servants were ordered to leave their homes in the early
hours of November 7, 2005 and were bussed to desolate Naypyidaw,
with no facilities and few ways to keep in touch with the outside
world.


But the population explosion -- the junta says 925,000 people now
live in Naypyidaw -- has created opportunities.


"The power and the money will be there so there is a lot of
attraction," the economics expert tells AFP. "That money is
injected into the economy and it should generate some growth."


It is not just small businesses in Naypyidaw that are
experiencing a mini-boom. The number of trains travelling between
here and Yangon has increased, and vendors en route are reaping
the benefits.


Mie Mie has been selling rice and curry at Bago station 80
kilometres (50 miles) north of Yangon for 15 years, and has seen
a 10 percent increase in sales since Naypyidaw was built.


"I hope for the best in the future because there are more trains
to Naypyidaw," she says gesturing to the track where dogs, cows
and goats are grazing on overgrown weeds.


Authorities are also improving the 400-kilometre (250-mile) road
linking Yangon and Naypyidaw.


Along the bumpy highway, men, women and children balancing
buckets of stones on their heads shuffle past smoking barrels of
black tar. They are resurfacing the road, although one restaurant
owner along the route says the highway has a habit of washing
away in the rainy season.


One place which has undoubtedly seen a boom is Pyinmana, a small
logging town that was literally engulfed as Naypyidaw was built
around it.


Any businessman or official leaving the station will walk into a
bustling market full of vendors offering snacks and supplies.


But food and drink are not the only services people crave.
Myanmar's police chief claims Naypyidaw is crime free, but aid
workers and foreign officials say that with any concentration of
people, sex workers will follow.


"I would say prostitution is already there," says a western
diplomat.

