

In a city disfigured by barbed wire, blast walls and bomb
craters, Iraqi painters are transforming ugly barriers born of
civil strife into vistas of the country's enduring natural
beauty.


Around 50 artists have assembled along the median of Al-Sadun
street, a main thoroughfare of the battle-weary capital, to paint
pastoral scenes on the blast walls that split the street in half.


"By painting we hope to break through the psychological barriers
Iraqis suffer from. They have become fed up with these walls that
separate streets and provoke resentment," said 44-year-old Mahir
Hamud.


"We are trying to give each painting a specific theme taken from
the environment of our most prominent cities, to show their
beauty and bring about calm and peace in the minds of the
people."


The wall sections, each nine metres (yards) long and two metres
high, are part of the vast network of concrete blocks and
concertina wire that carves up the capital, where bloody attacks
are a daily occurrence.


What the US military dubs its "concrete caterpillar" is gradually
crawling through the city, in some cases walling in entire
neighbourhoods, in others fortifying markets to protect them from
car bombs.


American commanders consider such barriers to be an important
part of the Baghdad security crackdown announced on February 14,
but many Iraqis believe they exacerbate sectarian divisions.


Last week a wave of popular resistance erupted over the proposed
erection of walls around the Sunni district of Adhamiyah and new
barricades around nearby Sadr City, bastion of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


Hundreds of Sunnis from Adhamiya angrily protested against the
wall, as did around 300 Sadr supporters from the other side of
the fault line who marched in Sadr City chanting "No, no to
sectarian isolation."


"We, the sons of the Iraqi people, will defend Adhamiyah as long
as we can, as well as defending the other regions that they want
to isolate from us," his officials said, reading a statement from
Sadr over a loudspeaker.


The military says the walls were being built to protect residents
on both sides of the sectarian divide from marauding death squads
and car bombers.


But both Shiite Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and Kurdish
President Jalal Talabani have also criticised the project.


Rather than demand the removal of the wall on Al-Sadun street,
artists have instead resolved to transform the barriers into
urban art.


And instead of the graffiti and political street art that daubed
the Berlin Wall and the Israeli security barrier in the occupied
West Bank, these painters are aiming for more classic landscapes.


"We hope these paintings will revive this street which was one of
the most important in the Iraqi capital, a street where Baghdadis
used to come to enjoy the outdoors," Hamud said.


The paintings capture the country's often overlooked natural
beauty, with scenes from the green mountains of Kurdistan in the
north and the vast alluvial marshes of the south.


The wetlands, a unique ecosystem of diverse plant and animal life
and home to several Arab tribes, were partly drained by Saddam
Hussein after the 1991 Gulf War and are only now starting to
recover.


"This artistic project reminds Iraqis of their cities and their
natural environment, so that they feel that it's theirs and that
they must be proud of it," 36-year-old artist Taha Abdul Aal
said.


"I think what unites us as Iraqis is our love of the beauty of
our cities, our lands, and our eternal attachment to our
country," he added.


"Even during working days, people stop to gaze" at the paintings,
Mohammed Dokhan, 33, said. "They praise these works, which have
given them a sense of delight, instead of the cement blocks that
used to cause suffocation."


The project, launched and paid for by the Baghdad municipality as
part of a larger effort to spruce up the city, calls for each
artist to complete forty barriers extending over 500 metres.

