

A cluster of films about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict played
to packed theatres this month at Hot Docs in Toronto, North
America's largest international documentary festival.


"The films this year offer fresh angles and insights on the
complexity of the conflict," said Sean Farnel, director of
programing for the festival, which wraps up Sunday.


Farnel cited "Strawberry Fields," by Tel Aviv film maker, Ayelet
Heller, as an example of new ways of showing the conflict.


The film follows the fortunes of the strawberry crops of Gaza,
from seedlings to supermarkets in Europe, where their plastic
boxes are identified as coming from the impoverished coastal
strip.


When the checkpoint is suddenly closed, the strawberries rot and
the farmers suffer along with their partners, Israeli exporters.


"I wanted to do a film about strawberries and hope, relationships
between Israelis and Palestinians," Heller said in an interview
with AFP.


She added that she preferred "metaphors and small stories with
bigger meanings to hard-core documentaries that just blame
Israel."


Heller's hope is that the film will show Israelis a different
side of Gaza. "For them, Gaza is the most dangerous place in the
world. But in the film, I am well- received, by people who are
kind, who make jokes."


Filmmakers at the Toronto festival are usually approached
informally by  viewers after their films are shown, and Israeli
filmmakers can expect these comments to be heated.


After Heller's film, one viewer approached her insisting that
Israelis were as bad as Nazis, while another other criticized the
film for not showing the Israeli point of view.


Heller was well aware of the irony of her film's title. Gaza is a
far cry from the idyllic setting in the Beatles song.


Another film, "9 Star Hotel," by Ido Haar, also carries an ironic
comparison, in this case, to the makeshift shacks put up by
Palestinian workers.


The filmmaker follows workers who enter Israel illegally and are
hired to build condominiums in the occupied territories.


"As an Israeli filmmaker, I cannot avoid the political. But my
challenge was to show something beyond the political," said Haar.


"The guys in my film are teenagers with lots of passion for life
that's being repressed, not only by the political situation but
by their own culture, which forces them to marry too young."


In Israel, he noted, films about the Palestinians are well-
received, mainly by left-wing audiences.


"The majority of people don't want to hear about the
Palestinians," he said. "Anything about them is immediately seen
as political, even though there might be other, more human
layers."


Israeli filmmaker Shimon Dotan's film "Hot House," about
Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails for masterminding suicide
bombings and other terrorist acts, reveals an inventory of the
unexpected. Audiences wondered how Dotan got access to these
high-security prisons.


"You ask," he said, "then they say no and then you ask again."


The film, shot over a year, tracks the Palestinian elections; l4
parliamentarians were elected from prison.


Dotan was most surprised by the political sophistication of the
prisoners, many of whom pursue university degrees while in jail.


The female prisoners seemed much more extreme than the men, noted
Dotan,    with former Palestinian news presenter Ahlam Tamimi
coming across particularly chilling as she smiles when she hears
that eight children were killed in the suicide bombing she helped
plan in the Sbarro pizza restaurant.


Dotan came out of the film with a new perspective. He sees some
of the inmates in what he calls the "think tanks" as a possible
bridge to Israel, and even partners in peace.


"It serves Israel's interests to see the situation from the other
side," he told AFP. "These people see themselves as military and
political leaders, freedom fighters, not assassins and
terrorists.


The film is an attempt to bridge the gap in these two
perceptions. When Israel bombs targets in Gaza and this causes
the death of civilians, the Palestinians don't see it as
collateral damage, they see it as violence and their actions as a
response."


The film, which won the Special Jury Prize for World Cinema
Documentary at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival, will be broadcast
on US cable network HBO on June 27 and will appear in Canada on
CBC.


It already has been shown in the West Bank and Gaza on the pan-
Arab news channel, Al-Arabiya.

