

When 104 men and boys sailed across the Atlantic 400 years ago to
become the first permanent English settlers in the New World,
little did they know that their odyssey would give birth to
history's biggest superpower.


The small group of high-born, but ill-prepared colonists who set
up camp along the James River on May 14, 1607 on a swampy,
mosquito-infested swath of land in Jamestown, were seeking gold
and a water route to the Orient.


Instead they found famine, disease, drought and hostile natives
whose fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement,
the 400th anniversary of which is being celebrated this year.


"The settlement of Jamestown is a tremendous legacy," Jeanne
Zeidler, executive director of "Jamestown 2007," the committee
organizing the celebrations, told AFP. "This is the true story of
America.


"Jamestown is the story of some very good people and some people
who weren't always so good and ... people who learned to live
together and sometimes fought each other."


The Jamestown colony, located in the eastern state of Virginia
and generally upstaged in the nation's memory by the Mayflower
pilgrims who arrived to Plymouth, Massachusetts, 13 years later,
also laid the groundwork for America's principles of
representative democracy and free enterprise.


The highlight of the quadricentennial celebrations will be a
visit by Britain's Queen Elizabeth II on May 3 and 4, followed by
three days of festivities on May 11-13 that will include stage
productions, a ceremonial sailing by replicas of the three ships
that transported the settlers and a concert by a 1,607-member
choir and an orchestra of 400 musicians.


The queen, who will be accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh, also
attended the 350th anniversary events in 1957 which marked her
first visit to the United States as a monarch.


US President George W. Bush is also due to attend the ceremonies
which have been 10 years in the planning.


But amid all the pomp and circumstance surrounding a date that
marks the birth of a nation, some, especially Native Americans
and blacks, are questioning whether there is much to celebrate.


For Native Americans, 1607 marks the beginning of their downfall
and for African-Americans, Jamestown symbolizes the beginning of
slavery in America with the arrival of the first African slaves
in 1619.


"1607 marks the beginning of the English taking our land away
from us," said Chief Bill Miles, who heads the Pamunkey Indian
tribe in Virginia, which existed when the Jamestown settlers
arrived and whose members have refused to take part in the 400th
anniversary festivities.


"We are certainly proud to be Americans ... but we don't feel
like it's something to celebrate or commemorate the fact that the
settlers basically took our land away from us," Miles told AFP.


Of the estimated 15,000 American Indians who lived in the area
near the English settlement in 1607, all but about 1,500 died
within a century, most from disease or in battle with the
settlers.


"When I ride though these roads here I see that only one or two
percent of the people are Indians and there are all these other
people," said Chief Ken Adams, who head the Upper Mattaponi
tribe. "Four hundred years ago there was only us."


No Native American from the time of the English colonists is
better known than Pocahontas, whose dealings with the settlers
has formed the basis of many legends and a factually incorrect
Walt Disney movie.


In a bid to avoid controversy and show consideration, organizers
of the anniversary have toned down their wording to describe the
event as a "commemoration" instead of a "celebration" and are
going out of their way to include blacks and Indians in the
festivities.


"We now tell the story of Jamestown as the place where the people
of three cultures came together, not only the English," said Mike
Litterst, spokesman for the Colonial National Historical Park.


"Certainly those three cultures didn't join hands and come
together to join a society.


"But it is the contribution of all three that helped Jamestown
survive and ultimately created the character of today's America."

