

Turks are expected to take to the streets in a rally Sunday in
support of the country's secular regime amid a row between the
government and the army over presidential elections in which the
sole candidate is a former Islamist.


The dispute which brought Turkey to the brink of a political
crisis erupted when the Islamist-rooted government's candidate,
Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul, narrowly missed becoming the next
president in a first round of voting in parliament Friday.


The prospect of Gul becoming head of state alarmed secularists
about Islam creeping into all fields of life and prompted the
opposition to boycott the vote, robbing the government of the
required two-thirds majority.


In a harsh statement issued hours after Friday's vote, the army,
which has carried out three coups in the past, said it was
determined to defend the secular order against what it saw as a
growing Islamist influence.


The government lashed out on Saturday, calling the armed forces
to order.


"I would like to underline that it is inconceivable in a
democratic state based on the rule of law for the general staff,
which remains under the orders of the prime minister, to speak
out against the government," government spokesman and Justice
Minister Cemil Cicek told a news conference.


Sunday's mass rally in Istanbul -- supported by some 400 non-
governmental organizations, according to the organizers -- will
follow a similar demonstration in Ankara on April 14 which drew
up to 1.5 million people according to some estimates.


"Let us unite for the Republic, tomorrow may be too late," the
organizers said in their call for the Istanbul rally.


Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's ruling Justice and
Development Party (AKP) was born out of a banned Islamist party
but says it has disawoved its past and is committed to the
secular order.


Yet, secularists suspect it of harbouring a secret Islamic
agenda, citing as evidence its unsuccessful attempts to
criminalise adultery, restrict alcohol sales and lift a ban on
Islamic headscarves in government offices.


They fear that the government will have a free hand to implement
policies that will erode the separation of state and religion if
the party controls the presidency.


The main opposition Republican People's Party has asked the
Constitutional Court to cancel Friday's presidential vote,
arguing that parliament did not have the necessary quorum.


If the court annuls the vote, general elections, set for November
4, could be brought forward. If not, Gul could be president in a
third round vote on May 9, when he needs only an absolute
majority in the AKP-dominated parliament.

