

Sir Alex Ferguson has demanded business as usual from Paul
Scholes despite the threat of the Manchester United midfielder
sitting out a second Champions League final through suspension.


Scholes goes into the second leg of United's semi-final with AC
Milan knowing that a yellow card will rule him out of the final
if Ferguson's side win through.


And that would mean an agonising repeat of the set of
circumstances that forced the former England international to
miss United's memorable 1999 Champions League final triumph over
Bayern Munich.


Scholes has a worrying disciplinary record in Europe and recently
served a one- match ban after being sent off in the quarter-final
clash with AS Roma.


But United manager Ferguson insists Scholes's position will not
affect his planning - and warned the player his future in the
competition lies in his own hands.


"We have to think of the team," Ferguson said. "And Paul has to
make sure he doesn't get booked, that's without question.


"The advice we gave him in the first leg was not to slide in and
make tackles because that's where he gets all his bookings.


"In Europe, they just don't accept it, sliding in. So if he stays
on his feet and tackles properly he won't be no problem.


"You can't have a player in the semi-finals of the European Cup
and say to him don't tackle."


Ferguson admits that the long-serving Scholes deserves the chance
to appear in a major European final and dismissed any fears that
Milan may attempt to exploit the midfielder's yellow card by
antagonising the United man.


"We're all hoping Paul gets his chance to play in a  final," the
manager added. "And I think if he keeps his calm about the game
he will be alright, I'm sure of that.


"I don't see any benefit to Milan trying to wind him up because
the second leg will be in progress and only one team is going to
the final. And Milan don't seem to be that kind of side."


The first leg at Old Trafford left the tie delicately poised with
United travelling to Italy on the back of a 3-2 advantage.


Ferguson accepts his injury-ridden defence will struggle to deny
Milan in their own stadium but he has backed his own side to
score at least once next week.


"I don't agree with the view that it is vital we don't go over
there and concede," he added. "I think there is every chance we
will concede. We just have to win the tie. We don't necessarily
have to win the game but we have to score and I think we will be
going there with an attitude to score.


"I wouldn't say we are favourites but I think we have given
ourselves a great chance. A goal lead is a great start in
European football and I think there will be good counter-attack
possibilities in our side.


"We have got speed in our attack but what we have to do is to
cross that line that we had to do in 1999, we had to go to
Juventus and win there. We have to step up a gear, there's no
question about that.


"We have to really play well in Milan's stadium and we have to
have the goal- threat. But I think there are similarities between
Milan and Manchester United.


"We have a rich history and they have an even richer European
history than us. We have great players and they have great
players in their team. I think it could be any score, I really
do."

