

Support for Scottish independence is much higher among the
English than the Scots, a poll showed Sunday, as Scots
nationalists geared up for elections to the Scottish parliament
this week.


An ICM poll published in the News of the World showed that 56
percent of the English surveyed believe it is now time to end the
300-year-old union, compared to 41 percent among Scots.


The ICM poll said a majority of English also oppose higher
spending on Scots households and votes for Scots MPs on English-
only issues.


Scots receive a larger share of tax money for public services
than those in England.


English voters are also unhappy with a constitutional anomaly in
which Scottish lawmakers can continue to vote on English issues
at Westminster but their English colleagues have no say on policy
north of the border.


The Scottish Parliament controls policy in Scotland over issues
such as health and education, but lawmakers in London retain
control over such things as defence, foreign affairs and major
economic issues.


The Scottish National Party (SNP) is promising a referendum on
independence if it wins the lion's share of seats to the
129-member devolved parliament in Edinburgh in Thursday's
elections.


Labour currently has the most seats, but not an outright majority
and is a partner with the Liberal Democrats in a ruling
coalition.


British parties are also contesting elections Thursday to English
local councils and the Welsh parliament.


In another ICM survey, Britain's opposition Conservative leader
David Cameron remained ahead of Gordon Brown, his expected rival
from the governing Labour Party, as the voters' choice for prime
minister.


The ICM survey for Sunday's News of the World gave Cameron a
five-point lead over Brown, or 42 percent over 37 percent, which
is less than the advantage the Conservatives enjoy over Labour
under Prime Minister Tony Blair.


Within days after the elections, Blair is expected to fulfill a
promise to step down and hand over to Brown, his finance minister
and erstwhile rival.


The ICM survey shows Cameron with a 16-percent advantage in the
southeast, a 12-percent lead in central England, a four-percent
edge among 25-to-34 year olds, a nine-percent advance among over
55s and a four-percent lead in Wales and the southwest.


But Brown enjoys a 28-point margin among fellow Scots and a
narrow one-percent lead in the vital north of England
battleground.


He also has the backing of 18-to-24-year-olds by 44 percent to 38
percent while the remaining age group -- those aged 45 to 54 --
are split equally between the two men.


ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,042 adults across
the country by telephone between April 25 and 27 and the results
were weighted to the profile of all adults.

