

Paris St Germain continued their late season fightback by edging
further away from the drop zone with a precious 3-1 away defeat
at Toulouse on Saturday.


PSG's 10th league victory and fourth from their last five matches
- in a season which has seen them come disastrously close to the
relegation zone's bottom three - was however bad news for their
hosts' European aspirations.


Toulouse's first home defeat of 2007 has left them in fourth
place and compromised their unlikely bid to finish second and
claim a spot in next season's Champions League.


The hosts however were given good reason to believe this was
their night.


Toulouse took a ninth minute lead through Fode Mansare, who
slalomed his way through five PSG defenders before beating
Mickael Landreau in the PSG goal.


However PSG regathered their confidence to hit back with goals
from Peguy Luyindula, Edouard Cisse and Jerome Rothen.


PSG may not yet be mathematically assured of top flight survival.
But for their manager Paul Le Guen, who took on the job of saving
their season after being ousted from Rangers, they might as well
be.


"I'm very optimistic (of beating relegation), even though
mathematically we're not in the clear yet," said the Frenchman,
whose side moved up to 14th nine points ahead of third-from-
bottom Troyes.


"But to look at the league standings, for sure we've given
ourselves a huge boost."


Toulouse had what seemed like a perfectly good goal refused two
minutes after their opener when the referee decided the ball had
gone out of play just before Emana had beat Landreau.


Toulouse coach Elie Baup believed that decision threw a spanner
in the works.


"Refusing us that goal was the turning point because we would
have been much better placed for the rest of the match," said
Baup.


"I don't see what was wrong with it. But we have to just keep
going and keep our heads up in the next few matches."


PSG midfielder Jerome Rothen slid a superb through ball to
Luyindula just after the half-hour mark, the Frenchman beating
the off-side trap to level for PSG.


Edouard Cisse then handed the visitors a shock half-time lead
after seeing his 20-yard take a slight deflection to land in the
top corner of Nicolas Douchez's net.


Luyindula was sent off for a second bookable offence nine minutes
before the final whistle, but despite their handicap PSG battled
till the end and were rewarded with a third goal from Rothen in
the third minute of injury time.


"We would have quite happily settled for a draw," said the
midfielder.


"So you can imagine how (happy) we feel, even though,
mathematically, we're still not safe from the drop."

