

Filipina hostess Jun panicked when she heard British bar worker
Lucie Blackman had been killed and mutilated in a horrific attack
that sent shockwaves through famously safe Tokyo's bar industry.


But Blackman's death did not stop the 32-year-old Jun from
working as a hostess, a job that has provided a lucrative income
ever since she first came to Japan 17 years ago.


"I don't go out on dates with my customers," said Jun, who only
disclosed her first name, at a "Philippine pub" in a desolate
Tokyo suburb.


"If they asked me out, I would make sure to bring a friend with
me."


Blackman, 21, disappeared in July 2000 while working as a hostess
in Tokyo's seedy Roppongi district, hoping to earn quick money to
fund a trip to Australia.


After seven months of searching, with her photos pinned up on
poles across Tokyo, her dismembered body was found buried in a
seaside cave in Misaki, 50 kilometres (30 miles) south of Tokyo.


"I've heard one of my younger friends had a similar problem," Jun
said. "She was about to get drugged and taken to a hotel."


Wealthy businessman Joji Obara was indicted for drugging 10 young
women and videotaping sex with them, including Australian hostess
Carita Ridgway, who later died at hospital.


Obara was sentenced to life in prison last week for the assaults
on five Japanese and four foreigners -- from Australia, Britain,
Canada and Ukraine.


But he was acquitted due to lack of evidence in the Blackman
case, which drew intense media interest in Britain and Japan.


Japan has increasingly cracked down on bars hiring foreign women
after Blackman's death and an embarrassing US State Department
report which blacklisted the close ally over human trafficking.


Japan issued nearly 135,000 "entertainer" visas, long a
convenient shield to bring in girls to work as bar hostesses, at
the peak in 2004, of which 61.3 percent went to people from the
Philippines.


The number shot down by more than 26 percent in the following
year, triggering protests in the Philippines where critics said
innocent workers would lose their livelihoods.


But observers said a significant number of foreign women,
particularly those from Asia, had already settled in Japan as bar
hostesses, slipping through the control of immigration
authorities.


"Westerners used to work on their tourist visas casually as they
backpacked the world," said Ryuji Demachi, a 51-year-old former
freelance writer who specialises in Japanese nightlife.


"There is still a market for Western hostesses, but the places
where they can work now have gone down to one-tenth from their
height."


Filipinas, Asians and Eastern Europeans are the most determined
to make money and send it back to their parents or buy a house
back home, he said.


Filipina hostess Jun is overstaying her entertainer visa, while
her friend Gina, 35, is only on temporary release from
immigration authorities, a status that could lead to her
detention at any time.


A growing number of Asian bar hostesses seek the safer option of
marrying a Japanese man to camouflage their work in the world's
second largest economy.


Tomio Ota, 58, who frequents foreign hostess bars and pubs, said
he did not think many of the girls felt threatened.


"There is no country that has the same high demand for hostess
girls as Japan," he said. "Even if they are not smart, they can
make a lot of money as long as they are a bit cute."


"You have to keep in mind, they are from a country where they
would get one- tenth of what the yen gets them."


Demachi said foreign women found the work of a bar hostess to be
a good deal -- they earn plenty of money without selling sex.


"Prostitution is not a prerequisite of this industry," he said.
"They only chat, drink and sing karaoke with Japanese men, and
they can earn a fortune."


Jun and Gina both said that Japanese men often came off as
perverts but were essentially harmless.


But asked what they would do if they were victimised, the two
Filipinas paused for a moment as they watched the disco ball
revolving from the ceiling.


They said they would not trust the police.


"I would probably talk to the owner first," Gina said, pointing
to the broad, shaved-headed Japanese man working at the counter.
They said he makes sure to drive them home after they finish
their work.


"If they want to go to a hotel with customers and make more
money, that's all up to them," the owner said. "You know, this is
that kind of business. But at least when they are here, I'm
responsible for their safety."

