

The renowned conductor in charge of Hong Kong's leading orchestra
has pulled his family out of the city because of its pollution, a
news report said Sunday.


Dutch maestro Edo de Waart, who conducts Hong Kong's acclaimed
Philharmonic Orchestra, told the Sunday Morning Post he had moved
his wife and two children to the US state of Wisconsin to get
them away from the worsening smog.


His comments came as city leaders consider a new pollution alert
system to give residents better and earlier warning of bad air
days.


"We have a four-year old son who has some asthma problems," De
Waart told the Post.


"The air quality is terrible in Hong Kong. I don't know what it
does to the little kids who grow up there, and we just don't want
to take the risk. It is that simple."


De Waart is one of the most high-profile figures yet to leave the
southern Chinese city because of pollution, although his contract
means he will return to work with the orchestra 14 weeks a year.


He took up the baton here in 2004 as chief conductor and artistic
director on a five-year contract, with an option for a further
five years.


Business groups and top companies have increasingly warned that
Hong Kong's pre- eminence as Asia's financial hub is at risk as
executives leave or refuse to be located here because of the
unhealthy atmosphere.


Late last year, global investment bank Merrill Lynch warned that
worsening air quality was likely to drive banks like itself from
the territory.


Its words echoed similar warnings by the British, US and local
chambers of commerce, who all called for immediate action to ease
pollution.


A recent survey said one in every three days last year saw
pollution levels that were bad for health. Pollutants, mostly
drifting in from southern China's heavily industrialised Pearl
River Delta, have reached near-dangerous levels.


Tourists have also lamented the disappearance of the city's
famous harbour and spectacular skyline beneath a blanket of smog.


Although the Beijing-backed government insists it is on top of
the matter, critics say it has failed to do anything to alleviate
the problem.


The Post reported that one measure it is now considering is a
colour-coded bad- air alert system, which will warn citizens when
officials expect the worst pollution.


Each colour code would correspond to a specific warning and
action plan.


A government panel, the Council for Sustainable Development,
believes the present system does not encourage people to take
personal action to avoid any health problems.


Environmentalists have long called for an overhaul of the present
system, complaining that it is based on artificially low figures
set in the mid-1980s and gives a misleading indication of the
severity.


Among other proposals it puts forward are road pricing, ordering
a halt to pollution-causing activities, and mandatory eco-
friendly light bulbs.

