

Prime Minister Tony Blair marks 10 years in power this week,
hoping plaudits for Britain's booming economy will outweigh
criticism centred on the Iraq war as he prepares to stand down.


His legacy also risks being clouded by a corruption probe that
has dogged his final year in office, while critics question how
long his governing Labour Party will be able to cling to power
without Blair's charismatic leadership.


The landmark anniversary comes just days before Blair is expected
to announce his resignation to make way -- reluctantly, some say
-- for likely successor finance minister Gordon Brown, his long
term ally turned bitter foe.


The 53-year-old premier, whose record for many risks being
overshadowed by his support for the US-led invasion of Iraq in
2003, admits his departure could help reverse his party's
fortunes.


"I think that when I go, obviously, a lot of the static and
unpopularity that will attach itself to any prime minister after
10 years goes with me," he said recently.


Blair, who led his party to a stunning landslide victory on May
2, 1997 to end 18 years of Conservative rule, had originally
planned to stay in office until the next election, potentially in
2010.


But despite winning an unprecedented three successive elections
for Labour, the media-friendly leader was forced to pledge to
quit early after a "coup" last year allegedly orchestrated by
Brown.


As he prepares to quit, Blair is keen to trumpet his successes.


On the domestic front, deregulation has boosted living standards,
London's financial sector is booming and millions of Britons are
buying second homes abroad while fellow Europeans struggle.


Politically, Scotland and Wales have been granted greater
autonomy in their own elected assemblies, the unelected upper
chamber House of Lords is on the way to reform and the Bank of
England now has power to set interest rates.


One of Blair's most cherished projects will come to fruition next
week when Northern Ireland regains a measure of self-rule. He is
widely expected to announce his resignation the next day, May 9.


But critics have multiplied, and the country's mood is now a
world away from the almost palpable euphoria which greeted New
Labour's 1997 triumph after the long years under Margaret
Thatcher and her successor John Major.


"Labour has suffered a catastrophic loss of trust," commentator
Polly Toynbee wrote Friday in the traditionally pro-Labour
Guardian daily, highlighting public disappointment in services
like health care.


"On Monday... it will be 10 years to the day that he made his
notorious eve of election speech declaiming: 'Twenty-four hours
to save the National Health Service!' So, did he do it? One thing
is certain: the public don't think so."


Perhaps more damagingly Blair -- who came to power vowing "purer
than pure" government after years of Tory sleaze -- is embroiled
in a "cash-for-honours" scandal which has made him the first
British premier to be quizzed by police.


But criticism is most overwhelming on the foreign policy front,
specifically Blair's decision, as a nominally left of centre
politician, to support Republican US President George W. Bush's
invasion of Iraq.


Four years later, the mounting British military death toll there
-- and in Afghanistan -- is having a similar impact on Blair's
poll ratings to those of Bush in the United States.


A YouGov survey Friday put the opposition Tories five points
ahead of Labour -- although in bad news for Blair's successor,
that gap widened to 10 points when voters were asked to rate
Brown against Conservative leader David Cameron.


Sunder Katwala, head of Labour's foremost thinktank the Fabian
Society, warned that the chancellor faces an uphill struggle.


"Gordon Brown will need new ideas if Labour is to win again," he
said recently.


"A 10-year-old government which just offers more of the same will
not be good enough. Sticking to the 1990s New Labour script will
simply run out of steam," he added.

