

The relationship between Moscow and London has hit a post-Cold
War low with the murder of a former Russian agent here and exile
Boris Berezovsky's call to overthrow President Vladimir Putin.


"It is at this moment worse that it has been at any time, if you
measure it in terms of political rhetoric, worse than since the
end of the Cold War," Roderic Lyne, the former British ambassador
in Moscow, told AFP.


Lyne was speaking last Monday on the sidelines of the annual
Russian Economic Forum in London, a showcase for Russian
enterprise that many Russian officials and business chiefs
boycotted amid growing political tension.


Ties took a sharp turn for the worse when Berezovsky told the
Guardian newspaper earlier this month that "we need to use force
to change this regime ... It isn't possible to change this regime
through democratic means."


The government in Moscow immediately renewed its call for the
extradition of the Russian oligarch while its ambassador in
London warned of a "new situation" between the two countries.


"For Putin there is only one question to the UK government, the
extradition of Berezovsky. Our relation with this country is
based on one problem," said liberal businessman Boris Nemtsov,
Russia's former deputy prime minister.


Russian political analyst Igor Bunin recalled that ties also
worsened with the radiation poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko,
the former agent turned Kremlin critic who died an agonising
death on November 23 in London.


According to the Mail on Sunday, the British police are preparing
warrants for the arrests of three Russians suspected of having
poisoned Litvinenko with the highly-radioactive polonium 210.


However, Moscow has already said it will extradite no-one.


The showdown over Berezovsky is "only one in a number of items"
undermining ties, Lyne said.


Others include a range of human rights issues as well as "the
concerns in western Europe over whether or not Russia intends to
use energy as a weapon," he added.


"But I think the most sensitive areas have been the area or
territory of the neighbours of Russia and of the European Union,
the countries coming into the European union and NATO," Lyne
said.


"They have not always been handled very well on either side," he
added.


In the case of Berezovsky, "Putin didn't understand how the
British system works," according to Lilia Shevtsova, senior
associate at the Carnegie Center in Moscow.


In the last few years, Britain gave political asylum to people
like Berezovsky and exiled Chechen leader Akhmed Zakayev, both of
whom have accused the Kremlin of being behind Litvinenko's
murder.


"Prime Minister Tony Blair could not meet Putin's demands, so
(the relationship) started to deteriorate already several years
ago," Shevtsova said.


"And now apparently this is the problem of the general picture,
we have different values, we have different perceptions of the
world, of the world's trajectory," she said.


"Russia consolidates itself on the basis of new witch hunting,
and the major ennemy now is the West, together with Great
Britain," she added.


Blair, during talks last Wednesday with Georgian President
Mikheil Saakashvili, implicitly regretted the lack of common
values with Russia.


The British prime minister told reporters he wanted "good and
strong" relations with Russia but said it was important that they
be based on "shared principles and values."


Putin appeared to deepen the gulf with the West during a speech
to the nation Thursday in which he denounced the western use of
"slogans" calling for democratisation which he compared to
colonialists worried about their interests.


However, Britain and other western powers are not likely to see
great damage to their economic interests as a result of the
tension, Shevtsova said.


"Western business will play in Russia a very important role
(though) only as minority shareholder," she said.


Britain is the top foreign investor in Russia, with such players
as British Petroleum or mining company Peter Hambro.

