

Iraqi rescuers on Sunday scoured the wreckage from the latest
deadly car bomb to look for survivors of a blast that left 63
dead, while the US military announced the deaths of nine more
troops.


And as the sun rose over Baghdad, a series of massive detonations
could be heard from southwestern districts of the capital, where
Iraqi security officials said a US operation was underway in
support of a joint security plan.


The death toll from Saturday's suicide bomb, which detonated near
a revered shrine in the Shiite pilgrimage city of Karbala, rose
to 63 overnight as scores of victims suffered in hospital wards
crowded with 170 wounded.


City health spokesman Salim Khadhim said many unidentified body
parts had been harvested from amidst the wreckage, suggesting
more casualties.


Meanwhile, the US command in Baghdad reported that fighting and
roadside bomb attacks had cost the lives of seven more American
soldiers and two marines over two days of intense violence,
bringing the month's tally to 91.


With two days left to run, April is already the seventh deadliest
month since the US-led invasion of March 2003 overthrew dictator
Saddam Hussein.


The scale of the carnage, more than 10 weeks after the start of a
major US and Iraqi security plan, will serve as another blow to
the authority of Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and US
President George W. Bush.


Bush has seen domestic support for his war strategy collapse and
this week will have to veto a bill passed by Congress to tie
further military funding to a plan to begin withdrawing US troops
in October.


And the rage in Karbala after Saturday's attack -- in which
protesters were quicker to blame the failure of the Iraqi
security forces than the aggression of the bomber -- underlined
Maliki's fragile authority.


The Karbala blast followed a pattern suggesting an attempt by
Sunni extremists to foment sectarian violence. The suicide bomber
detonated his payload near a gate to Ibn Abbas mosque, a revered
Shiite shrine.


"There are two dangers threatening Iraq, namely Al-Qaeda and the
Saddamists," Maliki said in a statement.


But while the Shiite-led government blames all of Iraq's problems
on "Saddamists and takfiris" -- or Sunni extremists --, the
enraged crowd that thronged Karbala after the blast pointed to
corruption and incompetence.


"Do the officials of Karbala not see what happens in the city?"
asked resident Hussain Mahdi, as the crowd surged around burnt-
out cars and scattered corpses, seeking loved ones or crying out
in rage.


"Karbala has become unsafe because of the weakness of the
security forces, because politicians interfere in it in order to
support their own loyalists," he charged, reflecting a popular
sentiment.


"A lot of people appointed in security services get their jobs
after paying bribes. How do you expect such police to work for
you?" said Abdul Hadi Gowaid, who saw the explosion rip through
Ibn Abbas street just before nightfall.


The United States is in the process of flooding an extra 28,000
troops into Iraq, while stepping up a programme to train and
equip Maliki's embattled Iraqi security forces to help them meet
the insurgent threat.


General David Petraeus, US commander in Iraq, said last week that
murders by sectarian death squads, which policy-makers see as the
biggest threat to Iraq's long-term stability, are down by two-
thirds over two months.


But car bombs, and hence the civilian casualty toll, have been
relentless.


"So we have not seen a corresponding drop in the level of
violence statistics that we have seen in the sectarian murder
statistics," Petraeus told reporters at a Pentagon briefing
during a short trip to Washington.


"I think the level of violence has roughly been -- depending
again on how you calculate these things -- but by our consistent
method, the level of violence has generally been unchanged."

