

A French woman freed by Taliban after 24 days in captivity was
due to leave Afghanistan "soon", the French embassy in Kabul said
Sunday amid calls for the release of her four male colleagues.


The young woman, identified only as Celine, spent the night in
the French embassy in Kabul where she made a tearful appeal late
Saturday to the Taliban to show mercy and release the French man
and three Afghans captured with her.


"She will be leaving soon," the embassy told AFP without giving
further details.


Celine, whose exact age has not been disclosed but is between 20
and 30, faced the international media hours after her release in
the southern province of Kandahar Saturday to deliver a message
from the Taliban.


"Approach this message for the entire world, especially Europe:
how the innocent people have been killed," she read in a barely
audible and tearful voice.


"Celine, now we want from the French to leave our country, it is
our right," said the message from the Taliban, which calls itself
the Islamic Emirate.


The Taliban said in a statement Saturday that it wanted France's
1,000 troops in Afghanistan to leave, or a response from the
government about an "exchange of prisoners."


It said it would give authorities a week to respond to the
demands.


After thanking the Taliban for releasing her and treating her
with respect, Celine made an impassioned plea for the freedom of
her colleagues.


"Eric came, like me, to Afghanistan as a friend. Hashim, Rasoul
and Azrat are Afghans. They are Muslims, they are their brothers.
They have children who are waiting for them," she said.


"I have told them before leaving that my freedom is nothing
without theirs. Release them."


Celine and Eric Damfreville and the three Afghans work for non-
government organisation Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our
Children) which has one project in Afghanistan -- a small
children's programme in Zaranj, on the border with Iran.


The town is the capital of Nimroz province, where the hostages
were captured while travelling by road on April 3.


Terre d'Enfance said Saturday it was relieved Celine had been
freed. It called on the kidnappers to spare the lives of the men,
and on the French and Afghan authorities to do all it could for
their release.


The extremist Taliban, in government between 1996 and 2001, has
beheaded several of its Afghan hostages and some Indians and
Turks. It claimed responsibility for the killing of a British
hostage in 2005.

