

Tamil Tiger rebels used light aircraft to bomb key installations
in and around Sri Lanka's capital Sunday, forcing cricket fans to
flee from parks as the World Cup final was being shown.


Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam planes targeted two oil storage
facilities, spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan said adding that it was
a retaliatory strike.


"We sent two squadrons to target facilities that provide fuel to
military aircraft after two Sri Lankan airforce jets bombed a
suburb of Kilinochchi (inside rebel-held territory) just past
midnight," he said.


He said the military had bombed the outskirts of Kilinochchi, 330
kilometres (206 miles) north of the capital using Israeli-built
Kfir jets. He gave no details of casualties.


Within an hour of Sri Lankan war planes carrying out the attack,
the Tigers scrambled "two squadrons" to attack targets in Colombo
and returned to their secret location two hours later, he added.


Explosions were heard in the capital two hours before the end of
the World Cup final match against Australia in the Caribbean
ended.


As the city was plunged in darkness and the night sky was lit up
with gunfire, fans scrambled to leave parks and hotels where
giant screens were switched off. Police sealed off several roads
within the city.


Doctors said five people wounded during the military anti-
aircraft fire were brought to the main hospital here. There were
no reports of any other casualties.


"Why we targeted the two oil storage facilities is because they
provide fuel to the Sri Lankan military," Ilanthiriyan said.


A Shell building near the Sri Lankan capital Colombo caught fire
following the rebel air attack, but there was no damage to
storage tanks, an official with the energy group said.


"There has been some explosion and we don't know the extent of
damage," said Shell Gas's media manager, Chamani Herath
Pathirage.


Fire engines were rushed to the scene after reports of the aerial
bombing.


Shell Gas Lanka is partially owned by the Sri Lankan government.


Earlier Saturday, police and security forces sealed off Sri
Lanka's capital, searching every vehicle entering and leaving the
city amid fears of a Tamil Tiger attack.


Troops manning key positions in the capital lit up the night sky
with a massive barrage of anti-aircraft fire that shook homes and
caused panic, residents said.


Security forces fired tracer bullets into the air and officials
said military units at key power stations, oil storage
facilities, a domestic airport and the city centre opened fire
with high-calibre anti-aircraft guns.


There was a second burst of firing 75 minutes later, when
authorities said they suspected the rebel aircraft was still
within the capital's air space.


Sri Lankan forces have been on high alert since the Tigers, whose
drawn-out campaign for an independent state for the island's
ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000 people dead,
carried out their first aerial strike last month.


Authorities responded to reports of approaching rebel planes by
switching off the electricity supply to the capital as millions
of Sri Lankans watched their side play Australia in the cricket
World Cup final.


"We are doing a search and that is why you are experiencing a
power cut," air force spokesman Ajantha Silva said. He said he
had no information about Tiger aircraft.


The power was restored about an hour later, but the anti-aircraft
fire continued.


Sri Lankan ordered a similar blackout Thursday after radar
spotted unidentified aircraft within the air space of the
island's only international airport, prompting authorities to
close it temporarily.

