

Birmingham manager Steve Bruce is refusing to contemplate a
return to the Premiership despite his side's 2-0 win over
Sheffield Wednesday that sent them top of the Championship.


Bruce's side, who were relegated last season, are five points
clear of third- placed Derby and will be promoted if the Rams
fail to win at Crystal Palace on Sunday.


If Derby do beat Palace, the Blues are likely to need just a draw
in their last match at Preston to clinch a top-two finish because
they have a far superior goal difference.


However, Bruce said: "My only thought is that it isn't over yet.
This club with its history tells you that in over 100 years we
never do anything easy.


"If it has to go to the wire, then so be it but it's a big ask
for Derby now.


"Personally I feel we should all be kicking off at the same time.
I know TV has got a part to play but, when there are only one or
two games left, we should all start at the same time."


Birmingham were down to 10 men for the final half an hour after
Fabrice Muamba was sent off for two bookings, but they still
managed to steal the points thanks to Cameron Jerome and
Sebastian Larsson.


Jerome broke the deadlock in the 74th minute with a close range
effort after Chris Adamson parried Radhi Jaidi's header. Larsson
sealed a win that sent St Andrews wild with six minutes to go as
he drove in a superb strike.


While there was euphoria at Birmingham, there was only despair at
Elland Road as Leeds plunged towards a spell outside the top two
divisions of English football for the first time.


Leeds took a 12th minute lead against Ipswich when Richard
Cresswell headed home after David Healy's fierce shot had been
parried by Shane Supple.


But Ipswich equalised through Alan Lee with just two minutes to
go, sparking chaotic scenes. Leeds fans invaded the pitch in
stoppage time and both teams sprinted from the field before
finally returning over 25 minutes later to play out the final
seconds.


Dennis Wise's third-bottom team are three points behind Hull, who
won 1-0 at Cardiff, with just a game to go and their goal
difference is nine goals worse than their rivals, leaving them
all but relegated.


It is a remarkable fall from grace for a club who were Champions
League semi- finalists in 2001, but are now faced with trips to
Carlisle, Northampton and Hartlepool.


Leeds could also face a heavy fine or even a points deduction
after the Football League confirmed that an FA investigation into
the pitch invasion is certain.


Wise said: "It's a sad enough day as it is. I don't want to talk
about that."


Southend will join Leeds in League One after a 3-1 home defeat
against Luton condemned Steve Tilson's side to the drop.


Tilson promised to make changes for next season and said: "We
need some fresh faces and I will be bringing some in. Myself and
the players have learned a lot from this season."


Preston are in danger of squandering their promotion hopes after
a 2-0 defeat at Plymouth saw them fall out of the play-off
places.


Paul Simpson's side have lost six of their last seven matches and
are now eighth, a point outside the play-offs, after late goals
from Sylvan Ebanks-Blake and Barry Hayles at Home Park.


West Bromwich, Wolverhampton and Southampton hold the remaining
top six places, but none are certain to claim a play-off spot.


A first half goal from Paul Robinson gave West Bromwich a 1-0 win
at Coventry, while Andy Keogh and Michael Kightly were
Wolverhampton's goalscorers as they beat QPR 2-0. Leon Best's
30th minute strike sealed Southampton's 1-0 win at Norwich.

