

Iran vowed on Sunday that it would announce by Monday whether its
officials will attend a key conference on Iraq's security next
week, amid a flurry of diplomatic activity aimed at persuading
Tehran to take part.


Tehran has shown a reluctance to sign up for the May 3-4
conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, citing
unhappiness with the decision to include world powers such as the
United States as well as Iraq's neighbours.


"Taking into account the moves of the Iraqi officials, the
Iranian officials are following this question positively and our
position will be announced today or tomorrow," said foreign
ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini.


Iraqi officials have been seeking to persuade Tehran to take
part, and Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari held talks last
week in Tehran with his Iranian counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki.


Hosseini confirmed that Iran's top national security official Ali
Larijani would now go to Baghdad to discuss the conference, in a
previously unannounced visit.


"The visit of Mr Larijani is in the framework of bilateral
relations. He will probably talk about security questions and the
international conference," he told reporters.


The spokesman said that the visit would be "clarified" on Sunday
or Monday, although state television cited a source in the Iraqi
embassy as saying that Larijani would leave on Sunday.


Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh was expected in Tehran
later on Sunday for more discussions, although a morning news
conference with Mottaki was postponed and there were unconfirmed
reports the visit had been cancelled.


Zebari failed to win a clear pledge from Iran to attend the
conference on his visit, but there have been mounting calls from
influential voices inside Iran for Tehran to participate.


Former foreign minister Kamal Kharazi, who is now a member of the
strategic foreign policy council that advises the supreme leader,
said on Friday that Iran should attend the conference for the
sake of Iraq.


"Iran absolutely must participate in this conference," added
Alaeddin Boroujerdi, the head of parliament's foreign affairs
committee, according to the Fars news agency.


"It is possible that the United States will make accusations
against Iran and our representatives must be there to reply to
them," he said.

