

A-Z of the 2007 World Cup which came to end here on Saturday with
Australia beating Sri Lanka in the final.


A is for Australians, everywhere. As well as the champion team,
there were Australian players in the Ireland and Scotland squads
while India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and West Indies all started
with Australian coaches.


B is for biceps, particularly those of Australia all-rounder
Andrew Symonds whose participation in the tournament had been put
in doubt because of arm surgery.


C is for crying and the tears of Bermuda's 17-year-old seamer
Malachi Jones who wept and wept and wept after taking the wicket
of India opener Robin Uthappa with his fourth ball. However, he
would have blubbed even more when he finished with 1-74 off seven
overs.


D is for drinking with a group of England players, and Andrew
Flintoff to the fore, exercising their right arms with so much
vigour that the all-rounder was dropped for one match while
others were fined. South Africe were also at the centre of 'late-
night booze shame' tabloid frenzy but, unlike England, they made
progress in the tournament.


E is for empty stadiums which became a constant, depressing sight
throughout the tournament as locals stayed away in protest at the
price of tickets. It got worse when India and Pakistan failed to
reach the second round.


F is for four wickets in four balls. The unique feat was achieved
by Sri Lanka seamer Lasith Malinga in Guyana although his efforts
were not enough to prevent South Africa from securing a one-
wicket win. F is also for Ferret, as in the bizarre dance
performed by Ireland seamer Dave Langford-Smith every time he
took a wicket.


G is for Gibbs. South Africa batsman Herschelle Gibbs made
history by becoming the first man to hit sixes in an over in a
one-day international, achieving the landmark against hapless
Netherlands in St Kitts. G is also for Adam Gilchrist who hit a
record 149 in the final to see his team to victory.


H is for Hayden with the Australian opener hitting the fastest
ever World Cup 100 in just 66 balls and going on to dominate the
scoring charts. H is also for humour as illustrated by Dutch
skipper Luke van Troost after seeing his slow bowler Daan van
Bunge pulverised by Gibbs' record-setting hitting. "I told him to
bowl a slower one," said the captain to his teammate. "'I just
did'," was the bemused reply.


I is for Inzamam-ul-Haq. The proud Pakistan skipper saw his team
humiliated by Ireland and devastated by the death of coach Bob
Woolmer. Inzamam won the hearts of the Kingston crowd and
millions watching around the world when he made a tearful exit at
Sabina Park after announcing his one-day international
retirement.


J is for Johnston. Ireland's Trent Johnston danced as close to an
Irish jig as his ageing Aussie bones could manage every time he
claimed a wicket. His teammates likened it to a chicken. J is
also for Ed Joyce who helped Ireland qualify for the World Cup
before switching allegiance to England. His reward? He was
promptly dropped when the runs dried up.


K is for kids. In a trademark sign that a tournament is failing
to woo the locals, World Cup organisers were reduced to busing in
thousands of bemused school pupils to fill acres of empty seats.
In Barbados, 4,000 of them added their shrill voices to the
proceedings. K is also for South African all-rounder Kallis who,
despite his critics, plays the game his way.


L is for Lara. The West Indies batting great, whose career was
peppered with a host of records and runs, wept as he bowed out of
international cricket unable to stem the decline of a once-feared
team. L is also for Dwayne Leverock, the 255-pound (116kg)
Bermuda spinner whose ungainliness perfectly illustrated the
team's problems on their debut appearance.


M is for Mir. Pervez Mir was the Pakistan team spokesman who was
a constant feature on TV screens and in newspapers mounting a
dignified response to the Woolmer tragedy. M is also for Malinga,
the bleach-blond Sri Lanka seamer with the slingshot action which
befuddled South Africa. M is also for McGrath, the veteran Aussie
bowler who claimed the all-time World Cup wickets record.


N is for no-hopers. Hang your heads in shame Bermuda, Scotland
and Canada who played nine games and failed to muster a point
between them.


O is for over-rated. Step forward India, the financial powerhouse
of the international game who lost to Bangladesh and beat a hasty
retreat home. O is also for over-priced as in tickets, 90 dollars
in St Kitts for example where the average weekly wage is 100
dollars, and hotels who thought it fun to triple their rates.


P is for the Pegasus Jamaica which briefly became one of the most
famous hotels in the world. It was where the Pakistan team stayed
and where Bob Woolmer was murdered on March 18. On a lighter
note, P is also for pedalo, Flintoff's transport of choice on his
infamous night out.


Q is for quit and plenty of people were doing it at the Caribbean
- Lara, Inzamam, Greg Chappell, Dav Whatmore, Duncan Fletcher and
Clive Lloyd amongst others.


R is for resting. Sri Lanka caused controversy when they gave
Chaminda Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan a breather for the Super
Eights match against Australia. The Aussies said it was something
they would never do while Lanka wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara
accused critics of double standards.


S is for Shields. Jamaica police's deputy commissioner Mark
Shields was the urbane and articulate detective leading the hunt
for Woolmer's killers.


T is for teenagers. Bangladesh's young side, which defeated
mighty India and South Africa, was packed with fearless talent
and made such an impression that they are already being
considered as a potential threat when the 2011 World Cup takes
place on the sub-continent.


U is for unsung heroes. The pre-tournament hype and publicity
revolved around the marquee names but it was the likes of Andrew
Hall, Scott Styris and Brad Hogg who were manning the barricades.


V is for Lou Vincent. The New Zealand opener made two noughts and
then a century. But just when he thought his World Cup was up and
running, he was ruled out with a broken wrist inflicted upon him
by teammate Shane Bond in the nets.


W is for Woolmer. Former England Test batsman Bob Woolmer was a
well-liked and hugely-respected coach admired for his even-handed
relationship with players and for his innovative methods. Deeply
depressed by Pakistan's shock loss to Ireland on March 17, he
died the following day. His death is being treated as murder and
the hunt for the killers is ongoing.


X is for X-factor and X-rated. Bangladesh had both, the former
with their stunning wins over India and South Africa, the latter
for their tame, lame defeat to Ireland.


Y is for youth. Just 20 years old but fresh-freshed enough to
suggest mid-teens, Stuart Broad held his nerve in his first World
Cup match to hit the runs which give England a one-wicket win
over West Indies. It also sent Brian Lara into retirement on a
losing note.


Z is for Zimbabwe. A team in turmoil, they mamanged a tie with
Ireland and very little else. Disenchanted on their return home,
two of their most promising players, Vusi Sibanda and Anthony
Ireland, left to take up lucrative club contracts in Australia
and England respectively.

