

Canada's top diplomat is heading to China this week amid rising
tensions over the life prison sentence that Beijing delivered
this month to a Canadian imam on terrorism and separatism
charges.


Foreign Minister Peter MacKay is to hold talks with his Chinese
counterpart Li Zhaoxing on Monday and Tuesday in a bid to mend
ties that have been damaged over the controversial case.


After a closed trial, Huseyin Celil, 37, a Chinese-born ethnic
Uighur with Canadian citizenship, was sentenced on April 19 by
China to life in prison for "the crime of splitting the
motherland" and involvement in terrorism.


His sentencing sparked anger in Canada, which has protested
China's failure to allow diplomatic visits and said it was
concerned over allegations that Celil might have been subjected
to torture and unfair trial proceedings.


China has warned that Celil's sentence was "related to anti-
terrorism" and did not concern Canada.


MacKay has blasted Chinese authorities for their refusal to
"recognize that Celil is a Canadian citizen" and asked them to
investigate allegations that he was tortured while in Chinese
custody.


After fleeing China to escape prison in 1996, Celil sought refuge
in Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and then Turkey before settling in 2001
in Canada, where he sought and was granted citizenship.


He was arrested in March 2006 during a trip to Uzbekistan and was
extradited to China.


Prior to MacKay's arrival, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Liu
Jianchao told Xinhua news agency Thursday he hoped Canada "would
not interfere in the internal matter."


Liu said China hoped the visit "could play a positive role in
improving and developing bilateral relations."


MacKay said he hoped the two-day visit would allow him to "set
priorities for productive cooperation between Canada and China."


However, the task could be difficult because the Celil case is
just the latest in a series of events that have soured relations
between Ottowa and Beijing since the rise to power of the
Conservatives in January 2006.


China has bristled at MacKay's accusations of corporate spying,
and criticized Ottowa for showing little will to extradite
Chinese wanted for crimes back home.


Beijing showed its displeasure at the Canadian parliament's
decision to give honorary citizenship to Tibetan religious leader
in exile, the Dalai Lama, in November.


Chinese President Hu Jintao cancelled at the last minute talks
with Prime Minister Stephen Harper during November's Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit in Hanoi.


In response to the snub, Harper told reporters: "I think
Canadians want us to promote our trade relations worldwide, and
we do that.


"But I don't think Canadians want us to sell our important
Canadian values -- our belief in democracy, freedom, human
rights. They don't want us to sell out that out to the almighty
dollar."


One Chinese official warned early this year that criticisms from
Canada over China's human rights policies could damage trade and
political relations between the two countries.


Last Wednesday, Ottowa asked to take part in World Trade
Organization consultations on the application of intellectual
property rights in China, after the United States lodged a pair
of complaints against Beijing at the beginning of the month.


Canadian exports to China in 2006 reached 7.7 billion Canadian
dollars (6.9 billion US dollars) and imports were 34.5 billion
Canadian dollars (31 billion US dollars).

