

The trade honeymoon between China and Latin America cannot last
forever, experts warn: sooner or later, the Asian giant will
reduce its need for raw materials, and countries across the
Americas will then have to offer value-added, higher- tech goods.


Experts taking part in the World Economic Forum (WEF) on Latin
America that wrapped up Thursday in Santiago agreed on this
scenario.


And though no one was in a hurry to predict when the Chinese
economic boom might ease, they all stressed that Latin American
countries need to start developing and targeting their niches in
China's massive market.


For Chilean banker-businessman Andronico Luksic, the time is ripe
for the region's countries to start taking long-term decisions
and adopt a common strategy to strengthen trade with China and
attract foreign investment.


Luksic, head of the economic team that manages Banco de Chile,
the second- biggest financial services group on the Chilean stock
market, Latin American companies should be encouraged to invest
in China and add value to their products.


"Latin America must try to add value to its raw materials," he
said. "We have to be bold and take risks, travel and not be
afraid of a 'big dragon.' China needs us now."


So Luksic proposed the creation of a Chinese-Latin American
Business Council to advance bilateral relations and set up a
platform for information that would facilitate trade and
financial decisions.


The head of China's mining company Minmetals, Zhang Shoulian,
also appealed for broader relations.


"The way in which China and Latin America work together is very
limited," he said. "Trade is the only one -- but there can be
many other ways of cooperating such as direct investment,
technology transfers and cultural exchanges."


Exports to China have been a top engine of economic growth for
Latin America, which advanced last year at a 5.6 percent clip.
The region's rich raw resources, such as copper, help feed
China's industrial boom.


The head of the UN Economic Commission for Latin America, Jose
Luis Machinea, said the symbiotic relationship between China and
Latin America has a future.


"The romance is not going to burn out as long as China is
growing, and China is going to keep growing for some time," he
told AFP. But, Machinea warned, "at some time, the biggest phase
of its industrialization process has to come to a close."


At that point, China will move on to another level of development
at which it will have less need for raw materials and an
expanding services sector.


So "we have to take advantage of the opportunity we have now to
add greater value and intellectual content to exports."


"This is the region's great challenge, beyond the short-run
benefits," he said.


Brazil's Development, Industry and Trade Minister Luis Fernando
Furlan said that when China moves into a new, higher level of
development, with a larger middle class, that will present a host
of huge new opportunities for producers.


"We have to improve infrastructure in our countries to reduce
export costs," he added.


Trade between Latin America and China, worth 200 million dollars
in 1975, surged to 70.2 billion dollars in 2006 and is forecast
to hit 80 billion dollars this year.


Chinese President Hu Jintao has predicted the two-way trade total
will top 100 billion dollars in 2010.

