

French voters have turned mildly optimistic about living
standards and having jobs but are suspicious of economic signals
barely a week before the final vote in a presidential election.


This seems to be the broad message of unemployment and consumer
data at the end of last week, mirroring high uncertainty in
voting intentions as measured by opinion polls in the
presidential campaign.


Industrialists, by contrast, are markedly more optimistic about
the outlook, described by one economist as "almost idyllic."


However, other analysts warned that the industrial climate could
quickly sour if business leaders did not like the outcome of the
election or the euro continued to rise.


Among the main election issues are unemployment, incentives to
work, living standards and the level of state support for some
sectors of business.


The election is now down to a final run-off between rightwinger
and broadly pro- market candidate Nicolas Sarkozy, and Segolene
Royal who represents the Socialists and is pitching particularly
at voters who had backed the now eliminated centrist candidate
Francois Bayrou.


They both take a similar line on another central topic: interest
rate rises by the European Central Bank and the strength of the
euro, which they say has added to problems facing French
exporters.


A survey of French industrialists showed more pronounced
confidence in the outlook for their businesses on Thursday.


And this was despite the strength of the euro which some
economists say is, in fact, a factor helping the French economy.


They point out it reflects strong growth in the eurozone in
general, notably in Germany, which benefits France, and helps to
contain inflation and therefore interest rates.


Economist Nicolas Bouzou at research centre Asteres described the
overall picture of the industrial survey as "almost idyllic."


Consumer confidence rose in April, data from the statistics
institute INSEE showed on Friday, but economists commented that
it remained low and sluggish. On this, Bouzou commented:
"Household confidence advanced at snail speed" and "remains low
in absolute terms."


INSEE found that household optimism about personal finances had
firmed in April. BNP Paribas economist Mathieu Kaiser said that
this was because inflation had slowed and because of tax cuts
since the beginning of the year.


The survey also showed an improvement in the outlook for living
standards and Kaiser said such factors behind consumption and
therefore growth "remain very positive."


Households were "sharply more optimistic" about unemployment, but
at the ACDE research assosiation, economist Marc Touati
commented: "Households are still sceptical about the reality of
the fall in unemployment but want to believe it."


March unemployment data on Thursday showed a fall in the rate to
8.3 percent, continuing a trend over two years, but the way the
statistics are calculated has generated hot controversy.


At the Xerfi institute, Alexandre Milicourtois, said that a
review of the unemployment calculations had become vital because
"unemployment trends are the main factor in public opinion and
therefore central to economic growth."


Touati said that even if unemployment were falling, "the
situation for households remains highly fragile" because of heavy
personal debt, weak job creation, unduly strong interest rate
rises and "a property bubble which is coming to an end."


And he warned that industrial confidence, although improved, was
still far below previous high points and was fragile.

