

Bahrain's tourism industry, which has long thrived on visitors
from its "dry" neighbours in the Gulf, faces a tough challenge
with the introduction of curbs on alcohol and nightclubs.


For now, the 27-kilometer-long (17-mile) causeway linking the
archipelago to eastern Saudi Arabia continues to be crowded every
weekend as thousands escape the ultra-conservative Muslim kingdom
for a break.


But by May 1, alcohol will be restricted to five-star hotels and
banned in all restaurants neighbouring mosques, schools or
residential areas, under a ministerial decision.


About 85 non-five-star hotels have been ordered to close
nightclubs hosting foreign bands on their premises and to stop
selling alcohol if they are in the designated areas.


And this even though the Gulf state had become a watering hole
for Westerners and Arabs from neighbouring countries.


"The effect of such decisions will not be limited to hotels. The
whole market in Bahrain will be affected... Tourists come here
thanks to shopping malls, tolerance and freedom, and not only for
hotels," said Ahmad Sanad, head of the Bahraini Association of
Hotel and Restaurant Owners.


"These decisions seem like collective punishment," he told AFP.


Sanad said such curbs should have been imposed only on the
recommendation of the tourism and interior ministries on proof of
"unlawful behaviour" in the targeted establiblishments.


"It is an attempt to appease the Islamist blocs in parliament,"
Sanad said, pointing out that the small kingdom has an Islamist-
dominated parliament despite being a key US ally in the region.


Between them, Sunni and Shiite Islamists control 30 out of 40
seats in the parliament which was elected in November and
December.


The Sunni Islamist bloc, which groups the Muslim Brothers and the
Salafis, controls 13 seats. They have been calling for years for
alcohol-free tourism, although they have never drafted such a
law.


The 17 Shiite MPs from the Islamic National Accord Association
(INAA) -- who represent the majority community in the Sunni-ruled
dynasty -- are making their debut in the assembly after
boycotting the previous ballot.


Although they differ with Sunni Islamists on other issues they
are unlikely to oppose a ban on alcohol or nightclubs.


But hotel owners argue that job cuts will be one of the results.


"Between 2,000 and 3,000 Bahrainis who work in the hotel sector
(and related activities) will be affected... These decisions will
hit the core of tourism in Bahrain in the future," said hotel
group owner Hussein al-Mozawib.


"Bahrain is a tolerant and open country where alcohol has been
common since the beginning of the last century... It is a fact
that tourists come here because our country is tolerant and
open," he told AFP.


He warned that banning alcohol will cause a sharp drop in hotel
business of around 60 percent.


But despite an order to shut nightclubs in four-star hotels in
effect since April 14 most are still open, with some of their
owners saying that they will defy the ruling.


Meanwhile Saudi visitors -- the main source of Bahrain's tourism
-- continue to jam the causeway to Bahrain every Wednesday on the
eve of the Muslim weekend.


These visitors arriving in thousands of cars are, however, not
necessarily all seeking alcohol which is banned in their home
country.


"I always make sure that I go to the movies. Shopping malls also
appeal to me," said Omar al-Qahtani, 26, standing at the entrance
of a cinema in Al-Seif mall on the northern coast of Manama.


"Many Saudi families prefer to spend the weekend in these malls
because they have everything," he added.


Cinemas are banned in Saudi Arabia, while shopping centres are
subject to strict scrutiny from the notorious religious police
which bans contact between the sexes and makes sure that women
are covered from head to toe.


Omar's friend Saleh al-Qahtani, 24, also did not appear to be too
concerned.


"It will not strongly affect the wish of the Saudis to visit
Bahrain, as most of them are families who like to spend the
weekend in a family environment," he said.


But for Ali, who came from the northwestern Saudi town of Hail
and declined to give his surname, the decision will definitely
affect tourism.


"Shutting down (nightclubs) in small hotels will affect a large
portion of tourists... Not all of us are wealthy to be able to
spend our weekend in five- star hotels," he said as he smoked the
popular Shisha -- water pipe -- in a bar in a one-star hotel.


"The atmosphere of tolerance and freedom is what sets Bahrain
apart," he added.


According to official 2006 statistics, Bahrain had 117 hotels of
all classes which employed 7,000 workers, including 1,788
Bahrainis.


As the only Gulf Arab state to have run out of oil to export,
Bahrain has launched a string of ambitious tourism projects
topping two billion dollars in a bid to diversify sources of
revenue.

