

Malaysia's opposition People's Justice Party (or Keadilan) linked
to former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim on Sunday disputed
a key by-election result after losing to the ruling coalition.


The Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition retained the seat of Ijok in
central Selangor state against Keadilan with an increased
majority.


K. Parthiban from the Malaysian Indian Congress, part of the BN
coalition, polled 5,884 votes while Keadilan's candidate, Abdul
Khalid Ibrahim, secured 4,034.


A record 81.9 percent of the electorate turned out to cast their
ballots in the constituency.


However, Keadilan rejected the poll results after alleging fraud
and calling the bitterly fought by-election an insult to
democracy.


"This is not a defeat for our party. This is an insult to our
democratic system," Keadilan said in a statement.


Voting over the weekend in Ijok was carried out amid tight
security, with some 1,000 policemen deployed to secure the area.


Hundreds of rival supporters were kept apart by security forces
as they hurled insults back and forth on polling day, while
heavily armed anti-riot police were on guard at a hall where the
votes were tallied.


Keadilan said it "found irregularities and evidence of fraud,
intimidation, bribery and cheating by Barisan Nasional," on
polling day, adding that the high voter turnout was "extremely
suspect."


It said the use of police and government machinery had created an
atmosphere of fear in the semi-rural constituency.


"There were voters who arrived only to find their votes used by
unknown persons. There are those who had passed away and yet
their votes were cast," Keadilan said.


Anwar had campaigned for Keadilan, formally run by his wife,
against the powerful ruling coalition, led by Prime Minister
Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.


The weekend poll was widely touted as a litmus test of popularity
for both sides ahead of a general election expected before 2009.


It marks Anwar's first major return to Malaysia's political scene
since his 1998 sacking by former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad
after he faced sodomy and corruption charges that landed him in
jail for six years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was later overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 14, 2008.

