

Sir Alex Ferguson has warned his Manchester United stars not to
get carried away with the five-point lead they have opened up
over Chelsea with just three games to play in this Premiership
campaign.


But the Scot is adamant that his squad deserve to be in such a
commanding position, arguing that it is the adventurous spirit of
players like Cristiano Ronaldo and Wayne Rooney that have got
them there.


Everything appeared to be going wrong for United on Saturday as
they trailed Everton by two goals while Chelsea were winning 2-1
at home to Bolton.


But Ferguson's men turned things around in spectacular fashion
with four goals in the final half hour at Goodison Park while
Jose Mourinho's squad wilted against Bolton and conceded an
equaliser.


"It's been an incredible turn of events. We were two-nothing
down, Chelsea were in front - and then we've turned it round to a
four-two victory. What a fantastic result for us," Ferguson said.


"I think the most important thing about this team is that the
players are always willing to have a go. And if you're having a
go, with the finishers we've got in our side, we're likely to
score. That is a smashing attitude to have in the latter part of
the season.


"These players want to win games. They want to score all the
time. When I see that enthusiasm, camaraderie and team spirit in
the dressing room, I can go home to my bed knowing I've got some
really honest players."


The results mean that United, thanks to their superior goal
difference, need to take four points from their remaining three
games to be sure of winning the title, and they could have
wrapped it up before they travel to Chelsea for their penultimate
match of the season on May 9.


If Ferguson's side beat local rivals Manchester City on Saturday
and Chelsea fail to beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium the
following day, United will be champions for the first time since
2003.


"Obviously the momentum is with us now," Ferguson said. "Five
points clear and with a superior goal difference gives us a
marvellous chance with three games left."


The United boss cautioned however that the lunchtime trip to City
would come in the wake of a gruelling trip to Italy for
Wednesday's Champions League semi- final second leg against AC
Milan.


"We know what that can do to the players. It will be very
difficult and we can't count any chickens yet. But there is
marvellous spirit in the camp and I think that is going to play
for us."


Initially lacklustre, United had looked doomed to defeat at
Goodison Park when Portuguese midfielder Manuel Fernandes
hammered an stoppable 25-yarder past Edwin van der Sar, five
minutes after half-time, to double the lead established by Alan
Stubbs's first-half free-kick.


But a howler by Everton's stand-in goalkeeper, Iain Turner,
allowed United back into the contest.


The Scot, only playing because Tim Howard was prevented from
doing so under the terms of his season-long loan from United,
dropped a cross to leave John O'Shea with a simple finish.


"That was a break for us," admitted Ferguson, who reacted to the
goal by gambling on the introduction of Cristiano Ronaldo,
despite his star winger carrying a minor injury.


"Bringing on Ronaldo, their focus would be on him," Ferguson
said. "But there would be Giggs, Scholes, Carrick, Rooney all to
worry about. I felt it was meant to happen."


The Portuguese winger had an immediate impact, rising to meet a
corner with a powerful downward header that former United player
Phil Neville sliced into his own net.


That set the stage for Roney to effectively settle the contest
with 11 minutes left and, with news of the Chelsea result
filtering through, substitute Chris Eagles curled in United's
fourth.


Everton manager David Moyes pointed the finger of blame at young
keeper Turner for a defeat which damages his side's hopes of
qualifying for the UEFA Cup.


"We are disappointed," said Moyes. "We gave United a great
opportunity to get back in the game. It gave them a massive lift.


"It was a big turning point in the game. For me it was poor all
round from our point of view as far as the goals concerned.


"I don't think they would have got back in had that mistake not
happened."

