

Unconventional schemes for tackling global warming by installing
a giant sunshade in orbit, sowing the seas with iron and
scattering sulphur into the upper atmosphere are set to be
bluntly rejected by UN experts this week.


The oddball initiatives are being fostered by "geo-engineers" --
scientists who say headway to reduce the fossil-fuel pollution
which drives global warming is so ludicrously slow that bold new
ideas are needed to avert climate catastrophe.


Among solutions they sketch is a giant network of tilted mirrors,
deployed in orbit, that would deflect some of the sunlight Earth
receives.


One idea is to sow particles of sulphur dioxide (SO2) particles
in the upper atmosphere to reflect sunlight back into space.
Another is to "fertilise" the seas with iron so that surface
algae sucks up carbon dioxide (CO2) from the air.


The goal of these and other schemes is to offset the warming
effect of greenhouse gases and, at the very least, buy time for
an effective deal for slashing carbon pollution.


In a report due to be delivered in Bangkok on Friday, a top UN
scientific authority will agree that the window of opportunity is
narrowing.


What happens over the next two to three decades "will determine
to a large extent the long-term global mean temperature increase
and the corresponding climate-change impacts that can be
avoided," according to a draft of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) document.


But it pours scorn on geo-engineering as a means of tackling the
problem, branding its approaches as hypothetical, tarred with
risk and carrying unknown economic costs.


"Geo-engineering options... remain largely speculative and with
the risk of unknown side effects," it says witheringly. "Reliable
cost estimates for these options have not been published."


Man-made global warming is caused by emissions of carbon gases,
chiefly from the burning of oil, coal and gas. These gases trap
solar heat, warming Earth's surface and inflicting change to the
climate system.


The commonsense approach would be to address the emissions that
cause the problem in the first place.


But -- with the exception of a minority of skeptics who doubt
man-made global warming exists and that if it does, it's not a
big deal -- the universal consensus that this effort is not
advancing nearly fast enough.


It is being braked in large part by fears about the economic cost
of reducing emissions and the switch to cleaner energy, and
vested interests opposed to a move out of fossil fuels are also
influential.


Mainstream scientists who assess geo-engineering schemes say they
get a fair hearing but are typically simplistic.


A study published in the latest issue of Nature, the British
weekly journal, looked into ocean fertilisation.


Under this, iron particles would be scattered into the sea in
certain areas to spur the growth of surface phytoplankton, or
algae.


As they grow, these micro-organisms would absorb CO2 from the air
by photosynthesis, eventually sinking to the ocean floor after
their death, thus "sequestering" the carbon in the briny depths.


The champion of fertilisation was US oceanographer John Martin,
who once declared ringingly: "Give me a half tanker of iron, and
I will give you an ice age."


But research published on Thursday in the British journal Nature
says phytoplankton blooms need far more nurturing than that.


Scientists led by Stephane Blain of the University of the
Mediterranean in Marseille, southern France, studied a huge,
45,000-square-kilometre (17,300 -square-mile) naturally-occurring
bloom in the Southern Ocean, near the French islands of
Kerguelen.


They found that iron which welled up to the bloom from the ocean
depths did indeed spur CO2 uptake -- and far more than previous
studies have suggested.


But macronutrients such as nitrates, phosphates and silic acid,
brought from surrounding waters and from below, are also vital.
Without them, the carbon- munchers cannot be sustained for long.


Also unclear are the side effects.


Edouard Bard, a professor at the College de France in Paris, says
there could be mechanisms by which the CO2, instead of being
durably locked on the ocean floor, could be released back into
the ocean, encouraging acidity and oxygen starvation.


Nitrate-loving bacteria thrive in such conditions, releasing
nitrous oxide -- an even more powerful greenhouse gas than CO2.

