

Whoever wins next weekend's elections in France, life at the top
is certain to undergo dramatic change -- with the arrival at the
Elysee palace of a first family that shatters the time-honoured
mould.


Both candidates -- Socialist Segolene Royal and right-wing
favourite Nicolas Sarkozy -- are in relationships that fly in the
face of presidential convention, though in many ways they
accurately reflect the changing sociology of the country as a
whole.


Royal, 53, would not only be the first woman president in French
history, she would also be the first in an unmarried partnership.
More than that: her partner -- Francois Hollande -- is leader of
the Socialist Party, which will pose interesting constitutional
challenges if she is elected.


Under Sarkozy, 52, attention will focus on his second wife
Cecilia with whom he has had a passionate but troubled marriage.
In recent weeks unsubstantiated rumours have circulated of more
marital difficulties, prompting calls for greater openness in the
way France reports the private lives of politicians.


Whichever pair enters the Elysee will send in a blast of
modernity after 12 years of the Chiracs, whose bourgeois
respectability sat well with the Louis XV furniture and Gobelins
tapestries of the 18th century palace.


A devout Catholic, Bernadette Chirac performed the role of "first
lady" to perfection -- setting up her own charity for Paris
hospitals, meeting dignitaries, but resolutely playing no part in
her husband's political career.


-- HOLLANDE, FIRST MAN IN WAITING --


As the country's first ever "first gentleman," Hollande would
find it a hard challenge to be as self-effacing as Madame Chirac.


Other women leaders -- like Queen Elizabeth II and Margaret
Thatcher -- have had consorts happy to remain in the background.
But Hollande, 52, has led his partner's political party for ten
years, was until recently seen as a possible president himself,
and certainly has strong views on policy.


The pair met while studying at the elite National Administration
School (ENA) in the late 1970s, and were together recruited to
work for Socialist president Francois Mitterrand. They have four
children -- the eldest of whom Thomas runs his mother's Internet
campaign site.


A genial figure whose balding portliness is a marked contrast to
the Royal beauty, Hollande has had to swallow hard during the
campaign as his partner's policy pronouncements repeatedly parted
company from Socialist Party orthodoxy.


Most embarrassing was the moment when Royal's official spokesman
described Hollande as "her most serious problem." The spokesman
was suspended for a month.


Aware that his ties to Royal would pose awkward questions about
how presidential policy is decided, Hollande indicated recently
that he will not live at the Elysee if she is elected -- though
this immediately fired up old Paris media- circle rumours about
their relationship being under strain.


-- SARKOZY, WITH OR WITHOUT CECILIA? --


If the Hollande-Royal couple is the object of regular ill-
informed speculation, the Sarkozys are even more of an enigma.


Sarkozy met his future wife in 1984 when he officiated as mayor
at her first wedding. According to a recent biography, he was
infatuated by the ex-model on the spot and pursued her till their
marriage 12 years later.


By then he had also been married and divorced. Together they had
four children from their first marriages -- she two girls, he two
boys -- and in 1997 they had a son of their own, Louis.


Of Jewish-Spanish ancestry, Cecilia's foreign roots match those
of Sarkozy, who is half Hungarian and quarter Jewish. In 2004 she
said she was proud "not to have a drop of French blood in my
veins," and both have come attack from the far-right for being
unsuitable occupants of the Elysee.


When Sarkozy entered government in 2002, Cecilia had an office in
the interior ministry -- but in early 2005 she disappeared from
view and it was revealed she had left him for an advertising
executive in New York. A few months later they were reconciled.


In his autobiography, Sarkozy said the experience left him
"profoundly shaken. Even today I find it hard to talk about it."
He also tacitly admitted that he had instrumentalised their
relationship in the media, saying he had "overly exposed her".


Memories of 2005 were reawakened in recent weeks, as Cecilia was
conspicuously absent from Sarkozy's election campaign -- and
tongues wagged again that she had left him. As if in response,
she was photographed at his side voting last Sunday and then
celebrating his first round victory.


Elegant if severe-looking, Cecilia has said: "I do not see myself
as a first lady. It bores me. I prefer going round in combat
trousers and cowboy boots. I don't fit the mould."


But family friends insisted they are still together and that
Cecilia, 49, intends to join him at the Elysee palace -- possibly
acting as a communications adviser.


"They have had their problems but she is hugely important to him.
She protects him," said one friend who asked not to be named.
"She will take on the role of first lady. A bit like Bernadette
Chirac -- but a different Bernadette: one who knows what's going
on."

