

The resignation of a senior US State Deparment official has put
the spotlight on an alleged Washington call-girl ring and pending
trial of its madam who claims powerful men were among thousands
of clients.


The capital has been riveted by the chance influential men may
now be caught with their trousers down since Deborah Jeane
Palfrey, 50, dubbed the DC Madam in local media, was arraigned in
federal court on charges of operating a Washington prostitution
service for 13 years until her retirement in 2006.


Palfrey has denied she ran a prostitution ring. Her company,
Pamela Martin and Associates, was simply a high-end adult fantasy
firm which offered legal sexual and erotic services across the
spectrum of adult sexual behavior, she said.


Palfrey contends her escort service provided university-educated
women to engage in legal game-playing of a sexual nature at 275
dollars an hour for a 90-minute session, The Washington Post
reported Saturday.


But Palfrey has also hinted that she has a record of the phone
numbers of thousands of the more than 10,000 customers her
company served which could embarrass more than a few of the US
capital's high-fliers.


Friday, the State Department announced that Randall Tobias, the
embattled head of the US Agency for International Development
(USAID), was resigning for unspecified personal reasons.


However broadcaster ABC News, which said Palfrey had provided it
with a record of the numbers of calls to her private cell phone,
reported late Friday that Tobias had stepped down after it spoke
to him about his alleged calls to her number.


Before taking the USAID post, Tobias was President George W.
Bush's first global AIDS coordinator and drew criticism for his
emphasis on partner fidelity and abstinence, instead of condom
use, as a means to prevent the spread of the AIDS virus.


Previously he was chairman, president and chief executive of the
pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly, and also, from 1997-2000,
chairman of the board of trustees at Duke University.


His now-reported links to a firm accused of prostitution have
raised more than a few eyebrows.


Palfrey's California home and other assets were seized by US tax
authorities in October, and Palfrey has been trying to raise
funds for her defense through an appeal on her website.


"I'm sure as heck not going to federal prison for one day, let
alone four to eight years, because I'm shy about bringing in the
deputy secretary of whatever," she told ABC.


Her lawyer, Montgomery Blair Sibley, told Fox television last
month: "The statistical certainty (is) that there are a fair
number of high-profile people who used this service across the
government and private sector in the metropolitan DC (District of
Columbia) area."


And The Washington Post reported Saturday that local jitters
appeared to be multiplying.


It said Sibley claimed that "he has been contacted in the past
few days by five lawyers asking whether their clients' phone
numbers are on Palfrey's list of 10,000 to 15,000 customers from
2002 to 2006."


That may have something to do with the fact that Palfrey already
has named her first name, as it were, on her website, where she
has posted a court document from April 12 in which she alleges
formal US naval commander Harlan Ullman was a "regular customer"
whom she needs to subpoena.


Ullman, with James Wade, developed the military doctrine of
"shock and awe" used by the US government in its invasion of
Iraq. According to one definition, it is shorthand for rapid
dominance based on the use of "overwhelming decisive force,"
"dominant maneuvers" and "spectacular displays of power" to
subdue the other side.


Earlier this month Ullman told CNN: "The allegations do not
dignify a response," and referred any other questions to his
lawyer.

