

The United Nations pointman in Iraq has urged Iraq's neighbours
to get behind Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government in its
bid to build a process of national reconciliation.


Ashraf Qazi, the UN secretary general's special representative in
Iraq, said next week's international peace conference in Egypt
was an opportunity for once suspicious countries to build ties
with Iraq's Shiite-led administration.


"Each of them have their concerns, each of them have their
perspectives. But each has a common stake, a shared stake in
stability of Iraq," Qazi said in an interview with two reporters
in Baghdad's Green Zone on Saturday.


"There is no exception. I have met with senior officials in each
one of these countries, and all have very obvious publicly
articulated interests in seeing Iraq stable and united, because
if things were to destabilise here it would have a negative
impact on their security environment."


On May 3 and 4, ministers from Iraq's neighbours, representatives
from the five UN Security Council countries and the G8
industrialised nations will meet in Egypt's Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh to discuss the turmoil in Iraq.


The task of restoring security to the violence-wracked country
was highlighted on Saturday by a suicide car bomb attack near a
revered Shiite shrine in the central Iraqi city of Karbala that
killed at least 58 people and wounded 170.


Citing the crisis posed by nearly two million Iraqis who have
sought refuge in countries such as Syria and Jordan, Qazi, a
Pakistani career diplomat, said a worsening of the situation
would hurt Iraq's neighbours.


"So they have obvious interest in helping to bring about
conditions which will enable those Iraqis to voluntarily and
safely return to Iraq," he said.


"The regional and international community also have the
responsibility because they have a stake in Iraq being
successful, otherwise their own security environment or interests
could be sort of negatively impacted."


Qazi, who before being appointed UN pointman for Baghdad in July
2004 was Islamabad's envoy to the United States, hoped the Sharm
el-Sheikh gathering would push national reconciliation in Iraq.


"What is going to happen in Sharm el-Sheikh will hopefully
contribute in efforts of Maliki's government to reach out
politically inside Iraq, and sort of advance his political
reconciliation priorities," he said.


"One of the efforts will be to get the regions to concert their
policies in support of Maliki government. These two meetings
together can set the ball rolling for a regional and
international process in support of Maliki's reconciliation
process."


Qazi said the situation in Iraq was still far from being stable
despite numerous initiatives by Maliki, including the launch of
the Baghdad security crackdown in February.


Maliki's "initiatives have not achieved their objectives so far
because of a very high degree of distrust that still exists among
Iraq's political community," he said.


Qazi also said any withdrawal of foreign troops from Iraq should
depend on conditions on the ground.


"I can only take note of government statements," he said.


"As of now they do not have all the capacity that would be needed
to handle the situation in absence of these forces," he said,
adding that foreign troops were in Iraq under a UN mandate.


Qazi also insisted that the quarterly human rights report
released by the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq
(UNAMI) on Wednesday was not intended as a criticism of the Iraqi
government.


It criticised Baghdad for concealing figures about the number of
Iraqis killed in the first quarter of 2007, and reported
allegations of the abuse and disappearance of detainees held by
the security forces.


"The intent is not to criticise. The intent is to assist and help
focus attention on addressing shortcomings," Qazi said.


"We don't always get the thanks but we understand that... because
sometimes host countries... not just Iraq but anywhere tend to
get a little impatient with reports that point out shortcomings."

