

Jamestown may be hailed by many as the place where America's
traditions of free enterprise and representative democracy took
root 400 years ago. But don't tell that to Ken Adams.


"The word annihilation, the word Holocaust, the word atrocity
come to mind when I think of 1607," said Adams, chief of the
Upper Mattaponi tribe, in referring to the year a group of men
and boys arrived in Jamestown and set up the first permanent
English colony in the New World.


Of the estimated 14,000 to 15,000 Native Americans who lived in
the area around the Jamestown settlement in 1607, nearly 90
percent were wiped out within a century, mainly from small-pox,
typhus and other Old World diseases inadvertently brought by the
colonists and to which the American Indians had never been
exposed. Some also died in fighting with the settlers.


For Adams and other Native Americans, these stark numbers give
little reason to celebrate as the country prepares to commemorate
the quadricentennial of the settlement, with Britain's Queen
Elizabeth and US President George W. Bush set to separately visit
Jamestown next month.


"We are certainly proud to be Americans but from our perspective
we don't feel like the 400th anniversary of the Jamestown
settlement is something to celebrate or commemorate," said Bill
Miles, chief of Virginia's Pamunkey Indian tribe, one of some 40
tribes that lived in the area in the 17th century.


Today there are eight state-recognized tribes in Virginia.


"When the English boats arrived on our shores, that was the
beginning of the English taking our land away from us," Miles
told AFP. "We fed them and they decided they wanted our food so
they took it away from us, and they wanted our land and they took
that away from us."


No Native American is better known from that time than
Pocahontas, who was the daughter of a powerful tribal chief and
who developed a friendship with the settlers and became a
celebrity in London after marrying an Englishman, John Rolfe.


Her life has given rise to many legends and a factually
inaccurate Disney movie that makes many American Indians cringe.


"The actual history of Pocahontas has been taken away from us, it
has been hijacked by everybody and anybody but us," Adams said.
"The only accounts we have about her are other people's accounts,
not from Indians.


"But we're working on setting the record straight."


Organizers of the 400th anniversary acknowledge the concerns
expressed by American Indians and blacks about Jamestown, where
the first African slaves arrived in 1619, and have toned down the
event from a "celebration" to a "commemoration".


"We know that the Virginia Indians were here 10,000 years before
the English arrived so it's a little disingenuous to say the
English discovered Jamestown in 1607," said Mike Litterst,
spokesman for the Colonial National Historic Park.


"We now tell the story of Jamestown as the place where the people
of three cultures came together, not only the English in 1607."


Adams said he hoped that in referring to Jamestown, people will
not only hail it as the first permanent English settlement that
gave birth to America but will recognize it as a painful symbol
for Native Americans.


"When I look at the history, I can't help but be disappointed
when I ride through these roads here and I see that only one or
two percent of the people are Indians," Adams said. "Four hundred
years ago, there was only us."

