

The sight of Russian investors perusing vineyards in the famous
Cognac region of southwest France has locals suspicious of their
motives and wary of their financial backers.


The chairman of the Cognac business association BNIC, Alain
Philippe, has two hypotheses.


"Either the Russians are coming here to look for good business
opportunities, which I have nothing against, or they want to
justify the sales of false cognac on the pretext of having bought
a few hectares of vineyards," he said.


Cognac is a brandy made in accordance with strict production
rules, distilled over many years, and produced from the vineyards
surrounding the French town of Cognac.


The problem in Russia, where the market for brandy is growing
fast, is that any brandy can be labelled cognac, damaging the
reputation of the original French version and compromising its
exclusivity.


According to Philippe, about ten cognac producers have "made a
pact with the devil" by working with the Russians, who he
suspects of wanting to use the name to legitimise their fake
"cognac" brandy in Russia.


His worries do not stop there.


"I am not casting aspersions, but I fear the worst, because
behind this market (in Russia) there is the mafia," he said,
adding that the entry of Russia in the World Trade Organisation
would be an opportunity to protect the cognac brand name.


Russia is the largest economy in the world that is not yet a
member of the WTO, which obliges members to respect intellectual
property rights, but negotiators hope the country can finally
complete the process this year.


The manager of cognac producer Jenssen in the village of
Bonneuil, Epsen Schulerud Soland, stressed that the possible
arrival of the mafia in the cognac- producing region was "a real
threat, but that one must make a point of not confusing it with
others."


In July last year, the Moscow-based wine and spirits company MVZ
bought a stake in Jenssen, a Norwegian-owned group, and is to
complete a takeover of the company and its 24 hectares of vines
by the end of 2007.


"I understand the fears that the (cognac) appellation will be
usurped, but the investors who are spending a lot of money here
have no interest in compromising everything by selling fake
cognac in Russia," he said.


Two months ago, fellow cognac producer Croizet-Eymard was also
snapped up by the Russian Wine Trust, which already owns another
vineyard.


Schulerud, who said a Russian vodka producer had also announced
plans to invest in the Cognac region, underlined the difference
between venerable Russian drinks companies and other less
scrupulous investors.


"I can assure you that what is sold as cognac by MVZ in Moscow is
real cognac, bottled in Bonneuil," he said, before adding that
perhaps some investors "with a less exposed profile" might be
benefiting from the market for contraband cognac in Russia.


Russians have long been big drinkers of cognac and French
producer Camus claims it supplied the court of the Russian Tsar
in the 19th century.


In seven years, sales of cognac to Russia have increased seven-
fold, tracking the economic development of the group, with
exports reaching 4.8 million bottles in 2006.


Russia is now the sixth biggest market in the world for cognac.


The BNIC association, which groups 6,000 growers and 300 dealers
in the Charente region of France in which the town of Cognac is
found, plans to launch an advertising campaign in Russia to
educate consumers about the cognac appellation.

