

Prime Minister Tony Blair, who marks 10 years in power Wednesday,
will be remembered for his media-savvy transformation of British
politics, but above all for the Iraq war.


Blair, who famously fronted a student rock band called Ugly
Rumours at Oxford University, has become one of the world's most
controversial leaders after backing the US-led invasion of Iraq
in 2003.


British involvement in the Gulf is still a divisive issue four
years on, and his governing Labour Party is slumped in the polls.


The 53-year-old -- expected to announce his resignation within
two weeks -- now admits his departure could help reverse both his
party and his successor's fortunes.


"But I also believe... that the essential New Labour position,
which is to get over some of the old divisions of left and right
in politics ... will hold," he said before the May 2 anniversary
of his 1997 landslide election win.


Anthony Charles Lynton Blair was born on May 6, 1953 in the
Scottish capital Edinburgh. He spent most of his childhood in the
northern English city of Durham, and went on to study law at
Oxford University, becoming a barrister.


He went into Labour politics in his 20s, and in 1983, when the
Conservatives under Margaret Thatcher were pushing British
politics decisively to the right, he was elected to parliament
for the northern English town of Sedgefield.


He rose rapidly through the ranks of the Labour Party, which was
then seeking to bounce back from a series of disastrous election
defeats and bitter internecine conflict.


In 1994 Labour leader John Smith died unexpectedly, and Blair,
then aged only 41, was elected to succeed him, having struck a
deal with his now likely successor, finance minister Gordon
Brown, that the latter would not run.


Three years later Labour swept to power -- making Blair at 43
Britain's youngest prime minister in 185 years -- in what was
seen as a fresh start after 18 years of rule by Margaret
Thatcher's, then John Major's Conservative Party.


The charismatic, guitar-playing Blair seemed refreshingly in
touch. He hung out with Britpop bands and captured the public
mood after the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, calling her
"the people's princess".


But a succession of overseas conflicts, particularly Iraq, plus
what some have seen as Labour's cynical manipulation of the news
agenda and scandals involving his party and ministers, have
changed all that.


Where once the youthful, photogenic Blair was seen as an asset to
woo the politically apathetic, women and younger voters, certain
Labour members increasingly saw the gaunt and greying premier as
an electoral liability.


In winning the 2005 general election, the father-of-four became
the first Labour leader to win three straight terms in office.


His brand of social and economic policies is a far cry from the
party's left- wing socialist roots.


Many members denounced his uncoupling of Labour's strong, some
would argue crippling, links with trade unions to promote a free-
market, business-friendly party more characteristic of the right-
wing Tories.


But "New Labour" -- the rebranded party he promoted from 1994 --
was an electable proposition where through much of the 1980s
"old" Labour was slowly self-destructing through ideological in-
fighting.


On domestic policy, he introduced some of the most wide-ranging
changes in the British constitutional make-up for centuries when
Scotland and Wales voted to have their own devolved
administrations.


Although the groundwork was laid by Major, Blair signed the Good
Friday peace agreement in Northern Ireland, largely ending
decades of violence between Catholics and Protestants.


Other key moments include the introduction of the Human Rights
Act, partial reform of the unelected upper chamber of parliament
the House of Lords, and greater legal recognition for same-sex
couples.


Britain's central bank, the Bank of England, was given the power
to set interest rates and the minimum wage was introduced.


Sustained economic prosperity, low unemployment and increased
growth have become familiar mantras from both Blair and Brown.


On a personal level, Blair became the first serving British prime
minister to became a father since 1849, when his wife, Cherie, a
prominent human rights lawyer, gave birth to their third son,
Leo, on May 20, 2000.


Another, less positive, first, came in December last year when he
became the first serving British prime minister to be questioned
by police in a criminal inquiry, over claims Labour offered seats
in the Lords to wealthy party donors.


However much Blair wants to be remembered for reforms in areas
like education, public health, pensions and law and order --
although his progress here is contested -- Iraq is likely to
overshadow all that.


By allying himself closely with the United States in the face of
strong, worldwide opposition, his authority at home and as a
world statesman has been severely dented as violence in the Gulf
state spirals.

