

Australians celebrated their cricket team's record third straight
World Cup victory Sunday tempered by sympathy for their Sri
Lankan opponents who were forced to end the batting in the rain-
shortened match in pitch-black darkness.


Prime Minister John Howard, often described as a "cricket
tragic", led the congratulations for skipper Ricky Ponting's men
with praise for outgoing fast- bowler and player of the series
Glenn McGrath.


Howard said he got up in the middle of the night to watch some of
Adam Gilchrist's record knock of 149 in Bridgetown, Barbados,
which put Australia on the road to victory.


"Congratulations to Ricky and the boys, but to Glenn McGrath,
that lanky bloke from Narromine, thanks for a wonderful
contribution to Australian cricket," Howard said.


"He joins the greats of Australian fast bowlers, he's a wonderful
bloke and he's been a wonderful player and he went out on a very
high note."


Sri Lanka's president Sunday congratulated the national team's
World Cup effort and pledged to help the side prepare for future
tournaments after their finals loss.


President Mahinda Rajapakse, who travelled to Barbados for the
finals match, said captain Mahela Jayawardene and his team mates
did a great job in the two- month tournament.


"I congratulate the captain and members of the Sri Lanka cricket
team on the success in finishing runners-up in the ICC World Cup
2007 tournament," he said in a statement.


"I take this occasion to renew my government's pledge to give all
assistance to the continued success of Sri Lankan cricket."


In Sri Lanka the game was marred when Tamil Tiger air attacks on
the capital during the match forced fans to flee their parties
for safety.


Fans dressed in the Sri Lankan team T-shirts and carrying the
national flag had earlier braved the rain to gather in their
hundreds at playgrounds, clubs, hotels and bars showing live
coverage of the match on giant screens.


Australia's opposition leader, Kevin Rudd, said Australian
cricketers had taken the sport to new heights.


"What a great outcome," Rudd told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation. "This is three on the trot. Congratulations to Ricky
Ponting and the boys."


Australia triumphed by 53 runs using the Duckworth/Lewis method
in a rain- shortened match concluded in confusion and gloomy
light.


Sri Lanka, chasing Australia's 281 for four in 38 overs, finished
on 215 for eight, still well short of their reduced target of 269
off 36 overs.


But confusion from the umpires saw the Australians celebrating
victory three overs before the end. The Sri Lankans were then
forced to resume the batting in darkness at the ground, with no
lights.


Comments on Australian sports blogs were scathing of the
misunderstanding.


"What a joke. The players deserved so much more than that," John
wrote on The Sunday Telegraph sports website.


"What a shocking tournament, coach of Pakistan murdered, a rain
affected shemozzle of a final that should have been postponed,
along with the high farce of the final ending twice in pitch-
black night," he wrote.


"The game descended into an absolute farce due to inept umpiring
decisions," agreed Aiti of Wollongong, south of Sydney.


"I am amazed, also, that the venue for the final had no lighting
facilities. I am sure that you would have needed radar to locate
the ball!.


"At the end of the day though -- the Australians won and
thoroughly deserved to win, having remained unbeaten through the
entire tournament."

