

Two women painters in Lebanon are pushing the boundaries with a
new exhibition called "Erotika," in which their depictions of
female sexuality have sparked mixed reactions.


Using vivid colours, the pair are showing images of fetishism,
homosexuality and even masturbation in a Beirut art show they
hope will help to break taboos in the usually conservative Arab
world.


Artists Nayla Karam and Maria Sarkis are displaying their Warhol-
like pop art in a joint exhibition at a gallery in the Lebanese
capital's northern Christian suburbs.


In "Auto-eroticism" for example, Sarkis presents a sensual
depiction in green and pink of a woman who may be masturbating, a
hand under her panties.


In yet brighter colours but smooth lines, another painting called
"The Mirror" shows a close encounter between the faces and
breasts of two apparent lesbians.


"I've been working on the theme of eroticism for a year. The
'morally correct' is a relative question which changes with
time," Sarkis told AFP.


The fine arts graduate from the Lebanese University, who is in
her twenties, said: "In the 19th century (French artist) Gustave
Courbet was banned from the universal exhibition of 1855.


"Today, he is considered one of the great masters of the Realist
movement," she added, referring to Courbet's "The Origin of the
World" which shocked many people of the time with its graphic
depiction of female genitalia.


Another painting by Sarkis called "Submission" portrays the face
of a woman wearing a black harness. "Sado-masochism" shows a
torso with coloured stripes.


"Our paintings are not pornographic -- this is modern art.
Sexuality and fantasies are part of reality. Why hide them?"
Sarkis asked.


Karam's paintings are more symbolic.


"I have been inspired by eroticism for the past five years," the
27-year-old said. "With time, my work has improved and my
paintings have become more figurative."


In "Drained," a naked woman presses her thighs against her chest
and her forehead against her knees, resting after sexual
intercourse.


"Second journey" shows a double image of the body of a woman, in
an apparent reference to multiple orgasms.


"We do not want to shock people. We allow our inspiration to
guide us. One of our greatest pleasures is to see the different
reactions of people, depending on their own fantasies," Karam
said.


She explained that her painting "Flesh Out" represented a navel
pressed by two hands.


"Some people saw it as buttocks, others as a hole, and some
others as lips," she said.


The exhibition has triggered conflicting reactions among
visitors.


Dana Dennawi, a 22-year-old student at the Arab University in
Beirut's mostly Muslim district, called the paintings "beautiful,
without even a hint of vulgarity."


"There is no harm in representing the different forms of sexual
expression," she said.


Leon Khanamirian, a 25-year-old banker, said that "in the Middle
East, men are allowed to express their sexual fantasies in a
vulgar manner, but when (women) artists paint sexuality, it
suddenly becomes a scandal."


Hassan Mekdad, 52, called the paintings shocking, however.


"The artists would have been killed if they lived in an Islamic
neighbourhood," he said.


Abdallad Dadur, owner of the "Surface" gallery that is staging
the exhibition, said he was "proud of these young people who are
expressing themselves without any complexes.


"Once more, the Lebanese are at the forefront of moral freedoms
in the Arab world."

