

Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed said on Saturday that the
army had beaten off Islamist forces in Mogadishu and urged
fleeing residents to return home.


"The government forces with the support of the Ethiopian troops
have completed the operations against the terrorist groups in
Mogadishu and they have accomplished their mission," Yusuf told a
press conference at the presidential palace.


"We call on the people who fled their houses to get back and
maintain their normal life," Yusuf said.


Ethiopian forces have been battling Islamist fighters and clan
militia since the beginning of the year when they backed Somali
government soldiers to oust an Islamist movement from the capital
and other areas in the Horn of Africa nation.


But remnant Islamists put up stiff resistance, igniting an
upsurge in violence which killed hundreds of civilians and forced
an estimated 400,000 people -- according to the United Nations --
to flee.


The latest fighting was some of the heaviest since the 1991
ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a bloody
power struggle in a country that has defied repeated attempts to
restore stability.


Hundreds of displaced residents trooped back to Mogadishu
Saturday to inspect their houses, many of which were destroyed by
heavy shelling in nine days of fighting that subsided Thursday
when the joint Ethiopian-Somali forces seized insurgents'
strongholds in northern Mogadishu.


In a bid to boost security, Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi named
Ethiopia- backed former warlord Mohamed Omar Habeb as the new
mayor of blood-soaked Mogadishu.


Habeb replaces Ade Ali Gabow, who was largely seen as
ineffective.


"I visited my house this morning and saw Ethiopian soldiers
inside. Some of them were sleeping and others sitting on my
veranda," said Muhubo Ali Diriye, a resident of Mogadishu's
northern Towfiq district.


"They allowed me to get in the rooms and check how things are,"
she told AFP.


An elder in Towfiq, Sheikh Hassan Dubad said the fighting had
been the worst he had ever seen.


"The worst shelling took place in our neighbourhood and we don't
know who we can ask to give us compensation," said Hassan, whose
house was destroyed by fire.


"I saw my house for the first time in nine days, but I could not
tell whether it was my house because it was demolished by
artillery shells," said Yusuf Gure Yare, another resident.


Yusuf urged foreign nations to help the displaced, many of whom
are camped in the capital's outskirts, facing disease outbreaks
and without sufficient water, food and medicine, according to aid
workers.


"We call on the international community to help Somali people who
fled from their homes," said Yusuf, who blamed the Islamists for
the violence.


Government forces patrolled the streets and searched residents
who were returning, an AFP correspondent and residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are checking anybody walking on the street,
but we can reach our houses today for the first time and no one
is stopping us," said Wiliyo Ali Ga'al, a mother of two.


A vanguard African Union peacekeeping force, currently made up of
some 1,500 Ugandan troops, has been unable to contain the
insurgency.


The pan-African body plans to deploy an 8,000-strong force to the
war-torn nation, but other African countries who have promised to
contribute soldiers have yet to do so.


The peacekeepers appealed for international help to treat
thousands of people wounded in the recent fighting.


"Every day, the wounded keep coming to our medical unit," AU
peacekeepers spokesman Captain Paddy Ankunda told Uganda's state-
run New Vision newspaper.


"We are overwhelmed. We are appealing to the international
community and especially the humanitarian agencies to come and do
their work," he added.

