

The world's leading climate scientists are to meet in Bangkok
from Monday to set out ways of minimising the damage to the Earth
as rising temperatures dramatically affect life as we know it.


Arctic ice and mountain glaciers are melting, greenhouse gases
are damaging weather systems that in turn will alter rainfall
patterns, fuel more powerful storms and heighten the risk of
drought.


Those findings, reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, the UN's top authority on global warming, were
contained in two major reports earlier this year saying the
planet is already warming.


In Bangkok, the scientists will lay out ways of reining in the
greenhouse gases that trap heat and fuel climate change, using a
mix of new policies and new technologies.


Their report is the last in a massive three-volume update of
knowledge on climate change, based on the work of some 2,500
scientists.


A preliminary draft of the 24-page summary obtained by AFP says
the cost of cutting greenhouse gas emissions could be modest.


One scenario predicted the cost of keeping carbon pollution at
nearly 75 percent above today's levels by 2030 would be as little
as 0.2 percent of the world's gross domestic product.


But the panel's proposals on exactly how to reduce carbon
pollution -- and how to pay for it -- are set to come under
fierce debate during the five-day meeting in Bangkok.


The draft of the report seen by AFP stops short of making
recommendations, but warns there is scant time to waste.


It figures better building standards, increased fuel efficiency
and greater development of wind, solar or geothermal energy, as
well as incentives for the better management of farming and
forestry also play a role.


But debate will inevitably tip on emissions caps, taxes on carbon
dioxide emissions, and the Kyoto Protocol, which is likely to irk
the US delegation.


US President George W. Bush has incurred the wrath of
environmentalists by abandoning the 1995 Kyoto Protocol, which
aims to reduce the emission of climate change-causing greenhouse
gases, saying it would hurt the US economy.


Environmental activists like Greenpeace insist the solution is to
focus on renewable energy, like solar, wind or geothermal power.


"Unless you have a push for renewable energy, this will just be a
reaction to what is happening with climate change, it will not
avert the worst impacts of climate change," said Abigail Gay
Jabines, a climate campaigner for Greenpeace in the Philippines.


Nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels could spark
contentious debate during the meeting, as could an emerging
technology called "carbon storage," whereby greenhouse gases
would be stored deep underground.


Underlying all these measures is finding a way to make consumers
and polluters pay for the cost of pollution.


Experts call this setting a "carbon price" that would be passed
along to businesses and consumers, and believe it would prove a
powerful incentive for people to change their habits.


The higher the price, the greater the potential for reducing
emissions. But if the price is too high, it could become an
economic drain.


Oil, gas and coal are likely to remain the mainspring of the
world's energy supply for several decades, according to the
International Energy Agency.


Economists argue that too high and fast a rise in the carbon
price would send fossil fuel-dependent economies into a tailspin.


In the run-up to the Bangkok meeting, Canada and Germany
announced new steps to curb carbon emissions from their
countries.


The European Union has already set a goal of reducing its carbon
dioxide output by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.


But the world's biggest carbon polluters, the United States and
China, fear that setting too ambitious a goal could send their
economies into a tailspin.

