

Tony Blair marks 10 years as British prime minister on May 2.
Here are some key quotes from his decade in power.


-- "This New Labour government will govern in the interests of
all our people, the whole of this nation... Enough of talking,
it's time to do."


addressing the crowds outside Downing Street, May 2, 1997.


-- "She was the people's princess and that's how she will stay,
how she will remain, in our hearts and in our memories for ever."


capturing the public mood after the death of Princess Diana,
August 31, 1997.


-- "We do, as a government, have to be extremely careful that we
are purer than pure, that people understand that we will not have
any truck with anything that is improper in any shape or form at
all."


setting out his vision that trust is the most important part of
government, July 8, 1998.


-- "I think most people who have dealt with me think I am a
pretty straight sort of guy and I am."


countering suggestions of losing that trust after Formula 1 is
exempted from a ban on tobacco advertising and F1 boss Bernie
Ecclestone is found to have donated one million pounds to Blair's
Labour Party, November 16, 1997.


-- "A day like today, I mean it's not a day for soundbites. We
can leave those at home. But I feel the hand of history upon our
shoulder."


arriving in Northern Ireland on April 7, 1998 ahead of the
landmark Good Friday peace accords.


-- "Mine is the first generation able to contemplate the
possibility that we may live our entire lives without going to
war, without sending our children to war. That is a prize beyond
value."


expressing hope for the future of international relations at the
NATO summit in Paris, May 27, 1997.


-- "We are doing what is right for a world that must know that
barbarity cannot be allowed to defeat justice. This is simply the
right thing to do."


announcing British involvement in NATO air strikes against
Serbia, March 26, 1999.


-- "I say to you, we stand side by side with you now, without
hesitation."


confirming British support for the United States after the
September 11, 2001 attacks, September 20, 2001.


-- "This is not the time to falter. This is the time... to show
that we will stand up for what we know to be right, to show that
we will confront the tyrannies and dictatorships and terrorists
who put our way of life at risk, to show at the moment of
decision that we have the courage to do the right thing."


making the case in parliament for invading Iraq, March 18, 2003.


-- "If I am elected I would serve a full third term. I do not
want to serve a fourth term. I don't think the British people
would want a prime minister to go on that long, but I think it's
sensible to make plain my intention now."


announcing that the 2005 general election will be his last,
October 1, 2004.


-- "I would have preferred to do this in my own way, but... the
next party conference in a couple of weeks will be my last party
conference as party leader. The TUC (Trades Union Congress) next
week will be my last TUC -- probably to the relief of both of
us."


pressured by Labour colleagues into announcing he would leave
office within a year, September 7, 2006.


-- "You've given me all I have ever achieved, and all that we've
achieved, together, for the country. Next year I won't be making
this speech. But in the years to come, wherever I am, whatever I
do, I'm with you. Wishing you well. Wanting you to win. You're
the future now. Make the most of it."


farewell speech to the Labour Party conference September 26,
2006.


-- "When I first started in politics, I wanted to please
everyone... After a time, you learn that you can't please
everyone. So you have to realise that in the end, the best thing
is to do what you think is right and then people can make their
judgment. That's the theory of Mister Tony..."


summing up what he has learnt in politics, Abu Dhabi, December
19, 2006.

