

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz heads into a crunch meeting
with restive bank directors Monday, accused of peddling personal
influence for his girlfriend and pursuing right-wing US policy
goals.


At the meeting with a World Bank investigatory committee, the
former Pentagon number two will plead his case over revelations
that he ordered a huge pay package for his girlfriend at the
bank, Shaha Riza.


The committee, drawn from the full board of 24 national
representatives, is examining not just the Riza affair but his
hiring of former White House aides to influential, and highly
paid, jobs in his inner circle.


He is set to appear at Monday's meeting with Riza and Robert
Bennett, a prominent Washington lawyer who helped former
president Bill Clinton settle a sexual harassment case in 1998.


"We want to make a presentation to them to show that this
conflict-of-interest allegation is absolutely false," Bennett
told AFP, arguing that Wolfowitz was being "smeared" by
opponents.


"They have some policy disputes with him and there are some
international power issues," added the high-powered lawyer,
referring to long-standing European suspicion of Wolfowitz.


A report in The Washington Post Saturday said the bank panel had
already concluded that Wolfowitz breached ethics in engineering
the pay raise for Riza, but remained locked in debate over
whether to call explicitly for his resignation.


The bank's hearing will coincide with a Washington summit between
US President George W. Bush and the European Union, represented
by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose members believe
Wolfowitz is now a liability.


But propped up by declarations of "full confidence" from Bush,
the neoconservative who played a starring role in the drive for
war in Iraq shows no sign of caving.


Meanwhile, a close aide is accused of agitating to dilute World
Bank support for abortions in the developing world, while a
leaked document suggests that Wolfowitz's office intervened to
water down a paper on climate change.


"This (climate) revision is yet another example of Mr.
Wolfowitz's attempt to align bank policy with the ideological
positions of the Bush administration," said Bea Edwards of the
Government Accountability Project, which published the leaked
memo.


Wolfowitz says he acted in good faith, on the advice of the
bank's ethics committee, in trying to resolve a potential
conflict of interest between himself and Riza after he became
president in June 2005.


But officials contend that he was never directed to personally
order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth nearly 200,000
dollars for his Libyan-born companion when she was reassigned to
a US government job.


Critics say the credibility of the World Bank itself is being
shredded, not least over a campaign spearheaded by Wolfowitz to
root out corruption.


Pressure intensified at the end of last week with an open letter
from 46 senior staff involved in implementing his "Governance and
Anticorruption" (GAC) strategy on the ground.


In places like Indonesia and Africa, local officials are mocking
demands from World Bank staff to attack graft given the scandal
engulfing Wolfowitz, according to reports.


"In these circumstances, we cannot credibly implement the GAC
strategy," the staff members wrote in their letter.


Without calling outright for the president's ouster, they
appealed for "clear and decisive actions to resolve this crisis
quickly."


"If the bank's own governance experts are asking for immediate
action, what hope does Wolfowitz have of restoring trust in
himself or legitimacy in the World Bank?" commented Manish Bapna,
executive director of the independent Bank Information Center.

