

Adam Gilchrist revealed the secret behind his record-breaking
innings of 149 in Australia's World Cup final victory against Sri
Lanka - a squash ball in his glove.


Normally just a training aid suggested by his batting coach and
former Western Australia cricketer Bob Meuleman, also a noted
squash player, Gilchrist took it one stage further during the
World Cup.


"I had a squash ball in my bottom-hand to help with my grip in
training and I decided in this World Cup to use it in a match.


"His (Meuleman's) last words to me when I left the training
centre in Perth were that if I was going to use it to make sure
it was to score a hundred in the World Cup final and to prove it
was in there," explained Gilchrist, who gestured to the dressing
room with his glove when he got his hundred.


The 35-year-old keeper's innings was the highest individual score
in a World Cup final, surpassing the 140 not out made by
Australia captain Ricky Ponting four years ago in Johannesburg.


It meant Australia, victors by 53 runs on the Duckworth/Lewis
method, had become the first side to win three successive finals
and had now gone 29 games unbeaten at the tournament.


Gilchrist's astounding display saw him strike eight sixes and 13
fours in just 104 balls, the Western Australia gloveman
justifying his reputation as the most dangerous batsman currently
in the one-day game after being outshone by opening partner
Matthew Hayden, this World Cup's leading scorer, for much of the
time in the Caribbean.


"It meant a great deal," said Gilchrist, now only one of three
players along with Ponting and retiring Australia quick Glenn
McGrath to have won three World Cups after starring in the side's
1999 and 2003 triumphs.


"It's been a bit of a frustrating tournament for me personally.
I've got a lot of 30s and 40s and a few low scores so I'd been
contributing to a partnership without really nailing a big one
myself."


However, Gilchrist's innings threatened to be eclipsed by the
chaotic scenes at the end of the game where Sri Lanka were
incorrectly told by officials they had to bat out the final three
overs in pitch black darkness or come back Sunday after going off
for bad light.


"We're not letting the events at the end tarnish anything this
team has achieved. We've had 29 undefeated World Cup games, and
the way we've played our cricket here and what we've achieved has
been phenomenal. "


Ponting, at the crease when his record was broken, was in no
doubt about the quality of Gilchrist's innings.


"As far as I'm concerned he hasn't played a better one. To go out
and do it in a World Cup final and hardly miss the middle of the
bat, it's one of the best innings you'll ever see.


"There was one difference between the two sides and that was his
innings."


But Gilchrist said he wasn't about to enjoy a 'fairytale' finish
to his one-day career.


"My plan is to carry on playing. I'm getting closer to Glenn's
situation, but I've said all along that I would never make a
decision on my career when I'm really down and flat or really
high on emotion."

