

The Detroit Pistons led the way into the second round of the
National Basketball Association playoffs on Saturday with a 97-93
victory over the Orlando Magic.


Chauncey Billups and Richard Hamilton combined to score Detroit's
final 12 points as the Pistons completed four-game sweep of the
Magic in their best-of- seven Eastern Conference first-round
series.


The Pistons, top seeds in the East, posted their first four-game
sweep in 18 years.


The last time they accomplished the feat was against the Los
Angeles Lakers in the 1989 NBA finals.


The following season, the Pistons beat Indiana 3-0 in a best-of-
five first-round series.


Detroit now await the winner of the series between Chicago and
defending NBA champions Miami.


The Bulls have the Heat on the ropes at 3-0 and can close out the
series on Sunday.


It looked like the Pistons might have to return home for game
five when Orlando led 85-80 after Grant Hill's dunk with 3:18 to
play.


The Pistons took a timeout after Hill's basket and promptly
started to take control.


Rasheed Wallace hit a 3-pointer to start a 9-1 run by Detroit.
Hamilton posted up Jameer Nelson and hit a turnaround in the lane
to give Detroit an 87-86 lead with 1:39 to play. Billups capped
the run with a layup 24 seconds later to make it 89-86.


The Detroit backcourt duo combined to make six free throws in the
final 20 seconds to seal the victory.


Magic All-Star Dwight Howard had been muted by the Detroit's
front line in the first three games of the series, averaging just
10.7 points while being double- and triple-teamed.


He got loose for 29 points and 17 rebounds and Hill added 17
points.


The only team below .500 to make the playoffs, the Magic have
lost seven straight playoff games - all to Detroit - dating to
2003.


In other Eastern action Saturday, Washington ran out of comebacks
as LeBron James scored 30 points to help the Cleveland Cavaliers
hold off the Wizards 98-92 and take a commanding three-games-to-
none lead in their first-round series.


Zydrunas Ilgauskas added a season high-tying 24 points on
10-of-13 shooting for the Cavaliers, who squandered a 17-point
halftime lead before clamping down on shorthanded Washington in
the final minutes.


Game four is Monday, where the Wizards will try to stay alive. In
NBA history, 79 teams have held 3-0 leads and none have lost the
series.

