

Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has drawn condemnation from
media rights groups and protests at home for his decision to
close a popular private television channel he accuses of backing
a 2002 coup.


Three weeks after his December re-election, the leftist leader
announced he would not renew Radio Caracas Television's (RCTV)
license, which ends May 27, thus taking off the air the only
private channel available nationally.


"There will be no new license for this putschist television
channel," said Chavez, who has never forgiven RCTV for running
cartoons and modeling shows during the brief coup that kept him
out of power for 47 hours in April 2002.


The government has also accused the channel of inciting people to
join anti- Chavez protests during a three-month general strike
that shut down Venezuela's oil industry in 2003.


RCTV director general Marcel Granier has pleaded his case before
the Organization of American States (OAS) and European
parliament, denouncing what he calls an affront to "independent
journalism."


"All of the president's arguments are of political nature, but he
has not proven them," said Granier, who has called for the courts
to intervene.


Chavez said Friday RCTV would become a "television of the
people."


But his decision has drawn the biggest protest since his re-
election, with thousands of people taking to the streets of
Caracas Saturday. A demonstration had also taken place Thursday.


According to a survey by polling firm Datanalisis, nearly 70
percnt of Venezuelans oppose RCTV's closure while 16 percent
support the government's decision.


RCTV, which has broadcast since 1953, is widely watched for its
soap operas known as "telenovelas" and the popular humor show
"Radio Rochela."


The private broadcaster and the state-owned Venezolana de
Television (VTV) are the only channels whose signals cover the
entire South American country.


RCTV's demise would leave only one private broadcaster seen close
to the opposition: Globovision, which only broadcasts in Caracas.


International media rights groups, including Reporters Without
Borders and the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), have
condemned Chavez's decision to shut down RCTV.


"The government's decision was predetermined and politically
motivated, setting an alarming precedent and casting doubt on
Venezuela's commitment to free expression," CPJ said on April 24.


Andres Canizales, a media expert at Andres Bello Catholic
University, said the government exposes itself to a "high
politicial cost" by seeking to "consolidate" domination over the
television industry.


"We go from an unbalanced situation against the government, when
Chavez legitimately denounced a media power against him, to the
extreme opposite," Canizales told AFP.


Canizales said two private channels that previously sided with
the opposition -- Venevision and Televen -- turned their coats in
2005 after Chavez won a recall referendum.


A "very symbolic" meeting took place between Chavez and media
magnate Gustavo Cisneros, the owner of Venevision, before the
referendum, he said. After the vote, the station dropped an
opinion show and replaced a morning newscast with a horoscope
program, he said.


Televen, meanwhile, took off the air programs presented by
opposition journalists.

