

A South Korean presidential aide will visit the United States
next month to explore the idea of holding a peace summit to try
and finally bring an official end to the 1950s Korean war, a news
report said Sunday.


Lee Hae-Chan, a former prime minister and special political
advisor to President Roh Moo-Hyun, will embark on a 10-day trip
to the US on May 10 for talks on holding a four-way peace summit,
Yonhap news agency said.


He is to meet with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and other
US officials and leaders in Washington after a stopover in Los
Angeles to attend a South Korean pro-democracy ceremony, Yonhap
said.


His US trip follows his visits to North Korea and China last
month and it is hoped all four parties will be involved in the
process.


"I believe he will exchange views on what he had felt about North
Korea during his trip to Pyongyang," a Uri Party official told
Yonhap, adding Lee will be travelling in his capacity as the head
of the party's Committee on Northeast Asian Peace.


The official said Lee and Rice could "discuss the possibility of
the four-nation summit" aimed at bringing peace on the Korean
peninsula, still technically in a state of war since the
1950-1953 Korean conflict.


Lee has publicly stressed a need for the two Koreas, the US and
China to hold a summit to replace an armistice with a peace pact
to end the Korean war.


Accompanied by Uri Party lawmakers during his US trip, Yonhap
said, Lee is also expected to meet with Christopher Hill, US
chief nuclear negotiator to the six party talks aimed at ending
North Korea's nuclear ambitions.


The multilateral diplomatic process -- involving the two Koreas,
China, Japan, Russia and the United States -- has set the
establishing of a regional peace regime in northeast Asia as one
of its long-term goals.


Under a landmark February 13 agreement, North Korea should have
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor in the presence of UN
inspectors as the first step in scrapping its nuclear programmes
by April 14.


But the deadline slipped by due to an unresolved dispute over
North Korea's 25 million dollars frozen at a Macau bank since
2005 at the US instigation over allegations of money laundering
and counterfeiting.


Pyongyang refuses to act until it gets the money back.

