

US auditors have found that seven out of eight Iraq
reconstruction projects declared successes by the US
administration were no longer operating because of lack of proper
maintenance or other problems, The New York Times reported on its
website Saturday.


The newspaper said the conclusions will be summarized in the
latest quarterly report by the Office of the Special Inspector
General for Iraq Reconstruction that will be released on Monday.


The United States has previously admitted that some of its
reconstruction projects have been abandoned, delayed or poorly
constructed, the report said.


But this is the first time inspectors have found that projects
officially declared a success -- in some cases, as little as six
months before the latest inspections -- were no longer working
properly, The Times said.


The inspections ranged geographically from northern to southern
Iraq and covered projects as varied as a maternity hospital,
barracks for an Iraqi special forces unit and a power station for
Baghdad International Airport, according to the report.


At the airport, inspectors found that while 11.8 million dollars
had been spent on new electrical generators, 8.6 million worth
were no longer functioning, the paper noted.


At the maternity hospital in the northern city of Erbil, an
expensive incinerator for medical waste was padlocked, and partly
as a result, medical waste was clogging the sewage system and
probably contaminating the water system, The Times said.


The newly built water purification system was not functioning
either.


Auditors said they had made an effort to sample different regions
and various types of projects, but that they were constrained
from taking a true random sample in part because many projects
were in areas too unsafe to visit.


The eight projects cost a total of about 150 million dollars.


"These first inspections indicate that the concerns that we and
others have had about the Iraqis sustaining our investments in
these projects are valid," the paper quotes Stuart Bowen, head of
the office of the special inspector general, as saying.

