

Match referee Jeff Crowe took the blame for the farcical finish
to the World Cup final which saw Australia celebrate victory
twice and forced Sri Lanka to bat in pitch-black darkness.


But he suggested third umpire Rudi Koertzen may have initiated a
process which led to chaotic scenes at the climax of cricket's
showpiece game.


Crowe, despite heading up a team of officials which included
umpire Steve Bucknor, standing in a record fifth World Cup final,
managed to overlook a basic playing condition which states that
once 20 overs have been bowled in both innings enough cricket has
been played to create a match and have a result declared under
the Duckworth/Lewis system for rain-affected games.


Instead the teams, following instructions from Bucknor and
Pakistan's Aleem Dar, the other on-field umpire, came back on to
bowl three more overs in gathering gloom.


Both Sri Lanka skipper Mahela Jayawardene and Australia
counterpart Ricky Ponting rightly thought the game had finished.


With the game gone from Sri Lanka, Jayawardene and Ponting came
to an arrangement that the match would finish with Sri Lanka
facing slow bowling as a safety precaution after the umpires had
incorrectly told them they would otherwise have to come back on
Sunday's reserve day.


"In hindsight, I should have known the rules and said the game
had been called off. I'm very embarrassed for the playing control
team today," said former New Zealand batsman Crowe after
officials had been booed during the trophy presentation ceremony
at the Kensington Oval.


"For me the real confusion has come from the fact we were talking
about resuming the game tomorrow (Sunday) - which was technically
wrong."


Crowe said he and the on-field umpires, as well as Koertzen, were
all involved in the discussion which left both sides stunned
when, after Sri Lanka had gone off for bad light at the end of
the 33rd over, they found themselves all coming back out again.


"Sometimes you get a stronger voice which says 'I know the rules
- this is how it works'," Crowe revealed.


"Then you get a bit of confusion in the group itself, and no one
wants to overrule the other. The match referee should have known
and said 'that's not right - the game should be completed now'."


Crowe said the officials took "collective" responsibility but
suggested the South Africa official had played a significant
role.


"Rudi was talking about the allowances and talking about the
possibility of tomorrow. I don't think it's Rudi's mistake, it's
a collective mistake.


"The fact Rudi might maybe have suggested it early doesn't mean
the other umpires couldn't have over-ruled him. The two on-field
umpires are the ones who control the match."


Asked if it was a resigning issue, Crowe said: "I'll have to talk
with my superiors on that. But I hope not."


Jayawardene said: "Obviously our understanding was that once we
complete 20 overs under D/L it's a completed game. We found out
after the game they (the umpires) got it wrong.


"With 70 runs to get off 20 balls, and with Glenn McGrath and
Shaun Tait bowling in that light, our guys wouldn't have seen
anything, we just wanted to finish the game.


"At that point (playing on) it was a goodwill gesture. Australia
deserved to win because the way they played today, simple as
that," he said.


And Ponting joked: "If the umpires don't know, I don't know. It
appeared we had a premature celebration for the best part of 10
minutes.


"I thought Aleem was having a bit of a joke with us when he said
it looks like we'd have to come back tomorrow and play three
overs. I said 'mate, we've played the 20 overs, we've actually
finished the game."

