

Sitting in the shadow of far-bigger rival Christie's and
Sotheby's, the world's oldest auction house, Austria's Dorotheum,
is determined to maintain its individuality as it celebrates its
300th birthday this year.


An auction house, pawn office and retail service rolled into one,
the Dorotheum, founded in April 1707 by Emperor Joseph I, still
closes sales with a bell rather than a hammer, unlike its more
famous competitors with their multi-million sales.


"We want to maintain our character. We don't need to copy the
Anglo-Saxon auction houses," said Dorotheum managing director
Martin Boehm.


"We simply have other goals and a much larger audience," he added
with a smile. Every year, the Dorotheum holds some 600 sales,
from small-scale ones to major auctions. Over 80 percent of
buyers are foreigners.


"You can take part (in an auction) with a few hundred euros, we
don't want to be a temple," Boehm said.


That is proving a successful recipe. The auctions branch has seen
growing sales since the Dorotheum was privatised in 2002,
bringing in 89.1 million euros (121.6 million dollars) last year.


The retail and pawn sections, with numerous branches around the
country, make up a little over 40 percent of business.


Since it was bought by Austrian online auctioneer onetwosold, the
Dorotheum, the oldest major auction house in the world, has also
sought to expand further afield with branches in Prag, Brussels,
Duesseldorf, Muenich, Milan and Zagreb.


"We would like to be present in Paris and London," Boehm said,
"but that takes a lot of time. When you're 300 years old, one or
two years don't make such a difference."


Classical, contemporary and design works have also challenged the
predominance of 17th-century master paintings in the auction
house's catalogue.


First limited to judicial sales, auctions developed in the 19th
century as works of art became more popular.


Enthusiasm grew on the eve of the 20th century and the old
convent that gave its name to the Dorotheum soon became too small
for the auction house, prompting Emperor Franz-Joseph to build a
new one on the same spot.


The new Palais Dorotheum in Vienna's old town was inaugurated by
the emperor in 1901 and since then it has become a real Austrian
institution.


"Everybody knows it here, even children," said Daniela Gregori,
who wrote a book entitled "Dorotheum, the first 300 years."


The Dorotheum, made famous by its pawn and retail services, is
synonymous with trust and security.


"Everybody goes there to buy or to sell, it has become a real
brand," Gregori said. The auction house, for example, is
Austria's prime jeweller.


"People come here like to a museum," said Patricia Palffy, a
contemporary art expert at the Dorotheum. "Nobody is afraid to
enter."


But even as the venerable institution celebrates three centuries
of existence -- this week, two special jubilee auctions brought
in a record 10.5 million euros and further celebratory sales are
planned in May and June -- it is not hiding its sometimes dark
past.


During World War II for instance, the Dorotheum made a fortune
selling Jewish property seized by the Nazis.


In 2006, the auction house gave 32 million dollars to a
restitution fund for victims of Nazi persecution, and two people
are employed full-time to ensure that no stolen property is put
on sale.

