

Next year's Olympics is being used as a catalyst for repression
in China, allowing hardliners to crack down on peaceful dissent
in the name of stability, according to Amnesty International.


The rights group gave China a failing grade in its third report
since 2005 on the Olympic host nation's performance in living up
to international human rights standards in the run-up to the
August 2008 Games in Beijing.


Citing "little evidence of reform" in several areas, the report,
released Monday, painted a bleak picture showing the Olympics "as
a catalyst (for) a continued crackdown on human rights defenders,
including prominent rights defence lawyers and those attempting
to report on human rights violations."


Amnesty, accused by Beijing last year of mounting politically
motivated attacks on China, welcomed new measures adopted
recently by Chinese authorities concerning the death penalty and
media freedoms.


But it said they were overshadowed by the state's obsession with
stability and a "strike hard" policy adopted to counter peaceful
dissent.


The London-based group said the International Olympic Committee
(IOC), which awarded China the 2008 Games, should use its
"significant influence" on the Chinese authorities to continue to
raise human rights issues in the run-up to the Games.


The IOC executive board, meeting in Beijing recently, said it was
a sports organisation with no political role.


The Amnesty Report cited a call by China's minister of police
last month for a crackdown on "hostile forces" including
religious sects and separatists ahead of the Olympics.


"We must strike hard at hostile forces both in and outside the
nation," said Zhou Yongkang, urging the crackdown by security to
uphold the goal of creating the "harmonious society" advocated by
President Hu Jintao.


The so-called "strike hard" policy was apparent during the two-
week session of China's rubber-stamp parliament, the National
People's Congress, in March, Amnesty said.


A security clampdown on central Beijing accompanied the session
and according to some sources thousands of people were locked up
in what was widely seen as a security rehearsal for next year's
Games.


The report emphasised relaxation of media rules for foreign
reporters in China in the lead-up to the Games and a new measure
granting China's Supreme Court judicial review of death penalty
sentences.


But not enough was known about the latter measure, with little
transparency concerning its operation, the report said, while the
number of executions in China -- the highest in the world
according to estimates -- still remained a state secret.


Amnesty applauded the granting of more freedom for foreign
journalists, who since January 1 this year have been allowed to
travel outside Beijing with fewer impediments.


But it noted that in September last year new measures tightened
control over the distribution of news by foreign media
organisations in China, prohibiting dissemination of news deemed
to "endanger China's national security, reputation and
interests."


At the same time censors tightened control of the traditional
news media and further curbed the free flow of information on the
Internet.


The crackdown runs counter to promises by Chinese officials to
ensure "complete media freedom" at the time of the Games, the
report said.

