

Glenn McGrath said linking up with old comrade Adam Gilchrist was
the perfect way for him to take his last wicket in international
cricket after Australia had won their third succesive World Cup
final with a 53-run win against Sri Lanka.


McGrath, 37, and the man of the tournament after a record-
breaking haul of 26 wickets, the most at a single World Cup, had
a relatively subdued end to his illustrious career, having
already announced he would retire after this event.


But he got in on the act, when having Sri Lanka's Russel Arnold -
also playing his last match for his country before his retirement
- caught by diving wicket- keeper Gilchrist sprinting forward to
take a catch at Kensington Oval here Saturday.


The duo, now only two out of three players along with Australia
captain Ricky Ponting to have won three World Cups after starring
in the 1999 and 2003 triumphs, have formed a potent combination
in both Test and one-day cricket, 'caught Gilchrist bowled
McGrath' a familiar mode of dismissal for many batsman.


"I guess it was nice to finish off with a catch behind with
Gilly," McGrath told reporters after Saturday's match having
become during the course of the tournament the World Cup's most
successful bowler of all-time with 71 wickets.


That was well ahead of Pakistan great Wasim Akram's mark of 55 in
38 matches to the Australian's 39.


"It was the perfect way to finish and I'm happy with that."


And McGrath said he hoped the over-riding cricketing memory of
the first World Cup staged in the Caribbean would be Australia's
sustained excellence rather than the chaos in the final's closing
moments.


Players, rightly thinking the game was over, were forced back
onto the field by an umpiring blunder after officials wrongly
ruled Sri Lanka had to bat out the day in pitch-black conditions.


"I think it would be disappointing if you focussed on 15 or 20
minutes of the whole tournament rather than the way we played
throughout," said McGrath.


"In my mind we didn't just want to win every game in the
tournament, but win every game convincingly and I think we
achieved that and hopefully that is how this tournament will be
remembered.


Ponting had wanted McGrath, Test cricket's most succesful
paceman, to bowl the last over in the quick's 250th one-dayer.


Although the gloom prevented that, McGrath joked: "Some people
say at the speed I'm bowling at I'm bowling all arm balls
anyway!"


But on a more serious note, after a career haul of 381 wickets at
an average of under 23 apiece, he added: "I will remember the
enjoyment of playing with these guys, the self-belief when you
walk on the field that we can win every single game we play.


"To go out there and have that belief not only in yourself but
also your team- mates makes it a lot more enjoyable."

