

Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip said on Saturday that
rioters in the capital were insulting the memory of the war dead
and using the removal of a Soviet war memorial as an excuse to
commit vandalism.


In his first major statement since the rioting began Thursday
night, Ansip said youth gangs who have looted shops and destroyed
businesses were "jeering at the courage and ideals of freedom."


"I have difficulty imagining anything more insulting to those who
fought in World War II than having pictures of drunken
shoplifters shown in their memory all over the world," he said in
a speech broadcast on national television in both the Estonian
and Russian languages.


The removal of the statue sparked riots that have left one
Russian dead and hundreds injured. It has also sparked angry
accusations between Estonia and Russia, which opposed the removal
of the statue.


Ansip apologised for moving the Bronze Soldier monument earlier
than planned.


"In order not to give the vandals the excuse or possibility to
link their activities with the memory of the fallen, we removed
the statue" in the early hours of Friday, Ansip said in a
nationally televised speech.


"I am sorry that we had to do this earlier than planned, but the
plunderers did not leave us with any other choice," the prime
minister said.


He urged the country of 1.34 million people where ethnic Russians
make up a quarter of the population to pull together and stand up
to "the sowers of hatred."


"I am sure that the attack of hooligans against what we all hold
dear -- the safety of our children, our memories, our country --
will unite us even more strongly," he said.


"We must not allow the sowers of hatred to split the nation or to
plant prejudice among us."


Refuting some Russian media reports that the monument had been
demolished after being removed from its position in central
Tallinn, Ansip said the Bronze Soldier was  "whole and undamaged"
and under police guard.


It will be taken to a military cemetery in a quiet neighbourhood
of Tallinn after excavation at the site where it stood for nearly
six decades has been completed.


Digging began Saturday to determine if any World War II soldiers
lie buried at the former site of the monument -- a busy bus stop.


"If any remains are found they will be exhumed and reburied at
the military cemetery," Defence Minister Jaak Aaviksoo said after
an all-faiths religious service was held in a large white tent
put up at the site before the monument was moved.


Historians believe around a dozen soldiers could lie buried where
the monument had stood since the late 1940s.


Estonians see the bronze statue as a symbol of 50 years of Soviet
occupation following World War II, while Russians view it as a
sacred memorial to millions of Red Army soldiers who died
fighting the Nazis.

