

US and EU leaders gather Monday at the White House to boost
economic ties but harbor little hope of striking an accord on the
increasingly divisive issue of global warming and how to combat
it.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose country holds the rotating
EU and G8 presidency, was counting on the annual US-EU summit in
Washington to line up positions about climate change before the
beginning of June, when she is to host the summit of eight
developed countries back home in Germany.


But without a common stance on goals for reducing carbon
emissions, the two parties risk making paltry statements of
intent, particularly with US President George W. Bush's position
far from Merkel's and EU Commissioner Jose Manuel Barroso's.


The 27 EU members agreed in March to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions by at least 20 percent by 2020, based on 1990 levels.
Germany's proposal was a more aggressive 40 percent cut by 2020.


Though differences persist over Bush's "war on terror," Americans
and Europeans have largely overcome tensions due to the US
invasion of Iraq.


Still, the beleaguered US administration -- caught up in a
standoff with Democrats in Congress over war funding and troop
withdrawal from Iraq -- is in great need of international
support.


And in those circumstances, bickering over greenhouse gases has
become a serious bone of contention.


The US ambassador to the European Union, C. Boyden Gray, has
warned against high expectations from Monday's summit.


"The summit will not be a defining moment," he said. "Only one
part of the journey."


Bush has refused to accept any imposition of limits on greenhouse
gas emissions, saying it would harm the national economy.


Bush has pointed out that without the cooperation of the rapidly
booming Chinese and Indian economies, emission cuts by other
countries are in vain. And he has pressed for the development and
use of new technologies.


Without any foreseeable agreement on global warming, Gray said
"the real meat on the bone" of the talks will be in the realm of
economic cooperation between the world's two key economic blocs.


What is likely to emerge is a "transatlantic economic
partnership" between Americans and Europeans.


Such a partnership would aim to synchronize regulations and
standards in automotive or pharmaceutical industries or in
intellectual property and public markets to entice investment and
exchange.


A US-EU "open sky" accord on freeing up transatlantic air travel
is expected, which would allow companies to fly anywhere in
Europe or the United States beginning in March 2008.


Europeans hope that the United States will retract its visa
demands for Eastern European countries which have recently been
inducted into the European Union.


During three joint work sessions, Bush, Merkel and Barroso are
also to bolster cooperation regarding Iran and its nuclear
ambitions, the status of Kosovo, and on the proliferation of
"terror." Iraq and Afghanistan are also to figure on the agenda.


EU diplomacy chief Javier Solana said Friday he would highlight
the need for the United States to breaks its more than 25 years
of silence with Iran and establish a "channel of communication"
on all subjects.


The White House has not ruled out topics of discussion such as
delicate relations with Russia and the reaction over the US anti-
missile shield in Europe.


Observers agree that the summit rarely provides breakthroughs,
and is even less likely to show any this year, as some European
countries await political changes and the US campaigning for
president in 2008 is well underway.

