

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's first visit to the United States
received mixed media reviews here Sunday, with several editorials
questioning the significance of his meeting with President George
W. Bush.


Analysis differed over how North Korea would react to the low-key
summit held Friday, when the two leaders discussed the Stalinist
nation and urged Pyongyang to shut down its nuclear facilities.


Media opinions particularly varied over how to interpret Bush's
comment that he had "strong sentiment" about North Korea's
kidnapping of Japanese nationals during the Cold War era.


When asked by a reporter, Bush declined to say if resolving the
issue was a precondition for taking North Korea off the US
terrorism list.


"Was the message from the Japanese and US leaders, issued at Camp
David, sufficient to drive North Korea to react sincerely? ...
The message was not necessarily a surprise for North Korea," the
Nikkei newspaper's editorial said.


"The question is: When will North Korea take the initial steps
(toward stopping its nuclear programs)? If action is never taken,
the significance of the Camp David meeting is questionable at
best," it said.


The Tokyo Shimbun was more blunt: "A show of good relationship
was staged, but a bilateral gap remained for a cold draft of air
to blow.


"It is too optimistic to believe the gap was buried between
Japan, which has maintained a hardline approach (against North
Korea), and the United States, which has started to show
flexibility," the newspaper's editorial said.


Bush was less than firm in his commitment on the abduction issue
in connection with the US terrorism list, according to editorials
from the Tokyo Shimbun, the Asahi Shimbun and the Mainichi
Shimbun newspapers.


In contrast, the conservative Sankei Shimbun said Bush "showed
his feeling that his human sentiment did not tolerate the
abduction issue.


"We want to believe he meant that the United States will not
ignore the abduction issue," the Sankei said in an editorial
approving the summit.


"It was a good opportunity for the two leaders to have shared
understanding of North Korea's nuclear and abduction issues," it
added.


The top-selling Yomiuri Shimbun also said Abe and Bush issued a
strong statement.


But its editorial added Japan must continue to lobby Washington
for its understanding on the abduction issue and to further
solidify the alliance.

