

France entered a crucial final week of campaigning on Sunday with
presidential rivals Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal set to
come face-to-face in a prime- time television debate.


Frontrunner Sarkozy was to address a mass rally at a Paris sports
stadium, a day after his Socialist rival held a high-profile
meeting with defeated centrist Francois Bayrou to court his
supporters whose votes are up for grabs.


Royal, who wants to become France's first woman president, did
not win a pledge of support from Bayrou but the televised
encounter allowed her to stress areas of agreement with the
centrist who won 6.8 million votes in round one.


Despite a series of big rallies planned ahead of the May 6 vote,
attention was focussed on the television debate, billed as the
high point of a campaign that has been dominated by calls for
change after 12 years under President Jacques Chirac.


A record 20 million viewers are set to tune in to the major
television networks on Wednesday for the two-hour debate, with
Sarkozy to come under close scrutiny following criticism that he
is too highly-strung to hold the presidency.


Sarkozy, the former interior minister, dismissed suggestion that
his hyper- active personality could be a liability in the debate,
saying in a newspaper interview that Royal is "an adversary whom
I respect."


"On May 2, I will just be myself," Sarkozy told the Journal du
Dimanche newspaper. "Politics is not war. Democracy is tolerance
and if need be, I'll have enough for two."


The latest poll showed Sarkozy would beat Royal in the runoff
with 52.5 percent of votes compared to 47.5 percent, even though
the Ipsos/Dell survey said Bayrou's voters preferred Royal to
Sarkozy.


Pledging a "clean break" from the politics of the past, Sarkozy,
52, has centred his campaign around such themes as the work
ethic, national identity, immigration and economic
liberalisation.


Royal, 53, has promised to protect France's generous "social
model" and her 100-point "presidential pact" contains many new
welfare projects to fight poverty and joblessness.


The election will usher in a younger generation of leaders amid
much agonising over how to adapt to globalisation, attack high
unemployment and defuse tensions in the high-immigrant suburbs
that exploded into rioting in late 2005.


During her meeting with Bayrou in a Paris hotel on Saturday,
Royal sought to show that she could reach beyond the traditional
left and find common ground with those who did not share all of
her ideas.


"This is an unprecedented event that underscores the
modernisation of politics and the need to break out of
confrontation of one bloc against another," said Royal.


But Sarkozy dismissed the Royal-Bayrou debate as "small-time
scheming" and underscored while on a campaign swing in the
northern town of Valenciennes that he was "here, among the French
people."


"There are some who are in a grand hotel, blathering on, but I'm
here on the ground," said Sarkozy, who rode the town tramway,
visited a school and toured a local factory.


A separate Ifop poll showed that 74 percent of respondents
believe Sarkozy will be the next president against 18 percent who
think Royal will move into the Elysee.


Sarkozy, the candidate of Chirac's governing party, won around 31
percent of the vote in the April 22 multi-candidate first round
while Royal scored nearly 26 percent.

