

Former US PGA Champion Shaun Micheel was the latest player to
condemn the PGA Tour's decision to let Phil Mickelson play in the
Byron Nelson Championship despite missing the pro-am.


"I would say 100 percent of the players, except for Phil, think
he shouldn't be here," Micheel said Saturday.


Micheel joined the growing chorus of condemnation at the tour's
decision to let Mickelson play, even though he broke a tour
regulation by missing Wednesday's pro-am.


"I'm really upset by it," Micheel added. "A lower-ranked player
like myself would be (home) in Memphis right now. I'm not going
to criticize Phil, but his responsibility is to be here.


"If that means he has to skip what he's doing to make sure he
gets here, then he has to be here.


"He's a name player, but we have rules for a reason - on the golf
course and in the regulations book - that we all have to play by.
He did not meet those rules and he should not be allowed to play
in the tournament."


Micheel, the 2003 PGA Championship winner, spoke from bitter
personal experience.


He was disqualified from the 2004 Bay Hill Invitational for
missing the pro-am.


At that event, he did not realize the pro-am was scheduled for
Tuesday instead of the usual Wednesday. But tour officials
banished him from the event.


Last year in Reno, Micheel missed the pro-am because he was
vomiting in the locker room shortly before his tee time. The tour
allowed him to play in the tournament but penalized him
financially.


"They docked 7,600 dollars out of my retirement for that," he
said. "I just wish they'd let me know that before, because then I
might have gone out and played one hole. That would have been
within the rules."


Micheel is so upset that he already has fired off an e-mail to
the PGA Tour and expects the matter will be the subject of heated
debate when Commissioner Tim Finchem hosts a players meeting in
Charlotte, North Carolina on Tuesday.


"They've opened a can of worms," Micheel said. "It's a huge
problem and it wouldn't surprise me to see a few players taking
advantage of some of the loopholes in the rules in the next few
months."


Mickelson said he missed Wednesday's pro-am because he was
stranded in Little Rock, Arkansas, as bad weather grounded his
private jet.


Such an absence normally leads to automatic disqualification from
the tournament. But the tour invoked the "extenuating
circumstances" exception, saying the bad weather was an act of
nature.


However, players are questioning why Mickelson was even playing a
Tuesday outing in another state when bad weather was forecast.


"He could have flown here at 6 o'clock (Wednesday) morning,"
Micheel said. "A friend of mine playing the pro-am flew in (from
Memphis) at 1:30 in the morning."

