

Wigan manager Paul Jewell slammed the Premier League's decision
not to deduct points from West Ham for their controversial
signings of Carlos Tevez and Javier Mascherano in the wake of his
team's 3-0 defeat to the Hammers.


Goals from Luis Boa Morte, Yossi Benayoun and Marlon Harewood at
the JJB Stadium on Saturday boosted West Ham's hopes of surviving
in the Premiership, while increasing Wigan's relegation worries.


It also came a day after the Premier League handed West Ham a 5.5
million pounds fine, instead of a points deduction, for
irregularities over the signings of Tevez and Mascherano last
August.


The Premier League decision was certainly not well received at
Wigan, especially after the emphatic West Ham victory
dramatically altered the relegation fight at the foot of the
division.


"I don't want this to sound like sour grapes," said Jewell. "And
I don't want anyone to get relegated because of an administrative
mistake.


"But I knew for a fact when they said they would have the hearing
with two or three games to go that there wouldn't be points
deducted.


"I asked the question before the game, what would happen if I
played Antonio Valencia who is suspended for today? I would have
played him if I could have got away with a half million pound
fine because this game is worth more than 5.5 million pounds to
us.


"If it had been Wigan or Watford, or if West Ham were down
already, they would have had points taken off them. One of the
reasons they gave (for no point deduction) was it was because of
the fans. What does that mean!


"Their fans have been fantastic, they are tremendous supporters,
but what does that mean? If you have got a big fan base you can't
get points deducted?


"I know it was the previous regime that did it (signed Tevez) but
this regime continue to play him! I think everyone in this room
would have been amazed if there had been anything other than a
fine."


Predictably, West Ham manager Alan Curbishley did not share
Jewell's sentiments and was clearly relieved at the outcome of
the hearing and his team's visit to the JJB Stadium.


He said: "It was out of my hands, whatever decision was made. If
points had been deducted, what could we do? But the 5.5 million
pounds didn't go down too well either! I'm glad I don't have to
pay it.


"But Eggert (Magnusson, West Ham chairman) and myself came to the
club and these things were done before. There was a
responsibility there and the Premier League have said this is not
going to happen again."


Although the victory did not lift his team out of the bottom
three, it has handed them great momentum as they face their final
two games at home to Bolton and away to Manchester United on the
final weekend of the season.


"I've been saying we need 38 points to give us a chance," said
Curbishley, whose team are now three points shy of that target.
"That's still the case and, on 38 points, we would still be
relying on other things happening. But with the momentum, and the
way we are playing, why can't we get more points?


"I've been saying since we lost to Spurs, we needed to win the
majority of our games and we probably still need to pick up the
majority of points from the next two games, but we have given
ourselves a chance."


Despite their appalling performance, Wigan still have their fate
in their own hands as victories in their final two matches would
keep them in the Premiership.


"We are struggling right now and we are running out of games,"
said the Wigan manager. "But the funny thing is, it is still in
our own hands. But if we play like that we will be relegated,
make no mistake.


"We have to believe we can do better, and I know we can, but that
performance won't win us another corner, let alone three points!"

