

The ACT Brumbies and Northern Bulls laid the foundations for a
thrilling finish to the Super 14 next weekend, as they toppled
the front running Canterbury Crusaders and Auckland Blues.


Coupled with wins for the Coastal Sharks and Waikato Chiefs it
meant the make-up of the top four for the play-offs is by no
means clear with just one round remaining and six teams all
having something to play for.


Despite their 6-15 loss in a tryless clash with the Brumbies, the
Crusaders continue to head the congested points table on 41, one
ahead of the Sharks (40) and then the Blues and Bulls (37).


The Chiefs (36) sit one point outside the top four, and one point
ahead of the Brumbies (35) with even the Western Force (32) still
holding faint hopes in sixth place.


At Canberra Stadium, the Brumbies played to plan as they
overpowered the Crusaders by drawing on the emotion of the last
home outing for stalwarts George Gregan, Stephen Larkham and
Jeremy Paul.


"Everyone used that momentum and the energy from the crowd to get
us home," Gregan said after a lap of honour


In the tough encounter between two old foes, desperate defence
and a slippery ball in wet conditions led to a host of turnovers
and no tries.


The Brumbies were rewarded with penalties by Stirling Mortlock
(three) and Julian Huxley, and a Larkham drop goal.


Dan Carter kicked a penalty in each half for the Crusaders who
then stayed out in the cold for 20 minutes to join the after
match tributes to the trio who have made a combined 361 Super
appearances.


"Those three have been a thorn in the sides of a lot of Kiwi
players -- All Blacks and Super 12/14 teams -- over 10 years.
They're really good blokes off the field as well," Crusaders
captain Richie McCaw said.


"All their boys played for them tonight and it was pretty evident
how they played."


While points were hard to come by in Canberra, the Bulls scored
four tries and a valuable bonus point when they downed the Blues
40-19.


The Blues, who came into the game after defeats to the Sharks and
Western Stormers raced into a 9-0 lead with three penalties by
Isa Nacewa in the first 10 minutes, before the Bulls piled on 20
unanswered points before halftime.


A fourth Nacewa penalty in the second half reduced the gap to
eight points, but the Bulls never looked like conceding the
upperhand and were up 40-12 before the Blues scored their only
try at the death.


The Sharks also scored four tries for a valuable bonus point when
they beat the Golden Lions 33-3 to move into second place and
closer to the prospect of hosting a home semifinal.


The competition's leading try scorer JP Pietersen dotted down
twice to move to 10 for the year, and flanker Jacques Botes also
each scored two tries in a match played in rain and a
particularly nasty hail-storm.


The Chiefs stayed in touch with the leaders when replacement
winger Tane Tu'ipulotu scored two minutes from time in their
28-23 win over the NSW Waratahs in a match where the lead changed
hnads five times in the second half.


To have any chance of making the top four they will have to beat
the Crusaders next week.


The Western Force, who play the Blues next week, picked up a
vital bonus point with a six-try, 45-17, thrashing of the Central
Cheetahs.


Led by the brilliance of Matt Giteau and Digby Ioane, the Force
blew the game open with a three-try first half and held a
commanding 21-0 lead at the break.


In the battle to avoid being the worst performing New Zealand
side, the Wellington Hurricanes escaped with a narrow 22-21
victory over the Otago Highlanders after Highlanders' flyhalf
Nick Evans missed a late conversion.


Both sides have 27 points but the Hurricanes are credited with
eighth and the Highlanders ninth on points differential.


In the remaining match of the weekend the Western Stormers
ensured the Queensland Reds stayed firmly at the bottom of the
competition with a 37-24 win in Cape Town.

