

The Sri Lankan capital was enveloped in "total panic" early
Sunday as Tamil Tiger air attacks forced World Cup cricket fans
to flee their parties for safety.


Fans dressed in the Sri Lankan team T-shirts and carrying the
national flag had earlier braved the rain to gather in their
hundreds at playgrounds, clubs, hotels and bars showing live
coverage of the match on giant screens.


However, the loud music, singing and dancing came to an abrupt
end after the city was plunged into darkness and anti-aircraft
batteries opened up at Tamil Tiger aircraft that entered the
city's airspace and carried out two bombings.


"It was total panic because we initially thought it was
fireworks," said Zaithoon Bin Ahamed who was partying with
friends at a Colombo Rugby club.


People scrambled to leave venues, as troops manning key positions
in the capital lit up the night sky with a massive barrage of
anti-aircraft fire that shook homes and caused panic, residents
said.


"Organisers were asking people to stay calm, but people were
getting nervous over the constant sounds of gun fire. No one
really knew what was going on," said Kamini Edward who was
following the game at a city hotel.


Authorities had earlier responded to reports of approaching rebel
planes by switching off the electricity supply to the capital as
millions of Sri Lankans watched their side play Australia in the
cricket World Cup final.


While millions of fans were left in darkness, the national side
crashed to an embarrassing defeat to three-times world champions
Australia.


"After so much hype about Sri Lanka winning, we lost to the best
side in the world so cheaply," said Ranjan Kumarapathirana, who
followed the game with some friends at home.


"It was like living a bad dream. First the aerial bombings, the
second time this week, and now a mauling by the Aussies,"
Kumarapathirana said.


Hours before the match started, Sri Lankans were stocking up on
snacks, soft drinks, ice cream and liquor, with supermarkets,
grocery and wine stores reporting brisk sales.


"It took us nearly 20 minutes to pay for a few bottles of soft
drinks, ice creams and snacks," said Marisa de Silva. "People are
just going crazy buying up food to watch the match. A win is
worth the long queue."


Cricket is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and is seen as one of the
few unifying elements that cut through political and ethnic lines
amid escalating fighting between troops and Tamil Tiger rebels.


Sri Lanka's state-run television station said more than 14
million of the island's 19.5 million population were expected to
watch the live broadcast of the finals.

