

Russia bade farewell on Sunday to Mstislav Rostropovich, the
music legend who became a powerful emblem of resistance to the
Soviet communist system.


A funeral service for the master cellist, who died on Friday at
the age of 80, was due to be held in the golden-domed Christ the
Saviour cathedral in Moscow, where hundreds of mourners came to
pay their last respects.


Rostropovich will then be buried in the grounds of Moscow's 16th-
century Novodevichy convent, joining his mentor, celebrated
composer Dmitry Shostakovich, and other leading cultural and
political figures.


Ilham Aliyev, the president of Azerbaijan, the former Soviet
republic where Rostropovich was born in 1927, said he would
attend the funeral and other major figures from the musical and
political world were expected to come.


Mourners laid flowers by the cathedral, which was rebuilt with
funds that Rostropovich helped raise, as an exact replica of a
grandiose church in the same location that was destroyed in
Soviet times.


Many paid tribute to the personal qualities of a man who was
forced to flee the Soviet Union for his freedom ideals and who
returned to Russia in August 1991 to help the country's first
president Boris Yeltsin defy a Soviet coup.


A nostalgia-filled funeral for Yeltsin, who died on Monday, was
held in the same cathedral only on Wednesday and he was buried in
the same Novodevichy convent where Rostropovich will be laid to
rest.


"He was a guide in life. He had the kind of character traits that
make you want to be like him. He was an extraordinary man, not
just because he was a very talented musician," said a tearful
Leila Kacharava, 49.


Some mourners remembered the iconic moment when Rostropovich
returned to Russia in August 1991 and played an impromptu cello
recital opposite the KGB headquarters to throngs of pro-democracy
protesters.


"I will never forget seeing him in August 1991... This little
fragile man was ready to lose everything for his country," said
Nikolai Lichankov, a 37-year-old lawyer.


Yekaterina Poprzhedzenskaya, 50, a doctor, said: "He was an
extraordinary man. People like him are an honour for Russia... He
is a loss for world culture."


"It really hurts," she added.


Thousands filed past Rostropovich's open coffin on Saturday at a
lying in state in the flower-filled hall of the main music
conservatory in Moscow, while a series of orchestras played.


It was from the same Moscow conservatory stage that Rostropovich
bade farewell to the Russian public in 1974 when he was forced to
flee after being hounded by Soviet authorities.


In 1970 the cellist wrote an open letter to the newspaper Pravda
defending dissident writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn, who had become
the target of official abuse after receiving the Nobel Prize for
literature.


The letter made Rostropovich a marked man for the Soviet
authorities.


He made a dramatic return to Russia in August 1991 to support
Yeltsin in defying an attempted Soviet military coup -- just
months before the final fall of the Soviet Union.

