

A general election is to be held in Ireland on May 24, a
spokeswoman for Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said on Sunday.


In a surprise early morning move, Ahern sought the dissolution of
the country's Dail (lower house of parliament) by President Mary
McAleese at her official residence on the outskirts of Dublin.


"President McAleese has dissolved the 29th Dail this morning," a
statement from the president's office said.


Ahern visited the official residence at 8am (0700 GMT) to ask her
to dissolve the Dail and summon the new 166 member parliament on
June 14, hours before she was due to leave for a five-day visit
to the United States later Sunday.


The premier, who has been in power at the head of two
administrations since 1997, is facing an uphill struggle to get a
record third term, according to opinion polls.


They suggest a neck-and-neck race between Ahern's centrist Fianna
Fail- Progressive Democrats partnership and an alternative
alliance of the Fine Gael and Labour and, perhaps, Green
opposition parties.


With the polls showing the contest is on a knife-edge, the shake-
out after the May 24 ballot could result in a new coalition
alliance emerging.


Fianna Fail has previously coalesced with the left-of-centre
Labour Party.


Ahern's decision to call the election follows weeks of
speculation, with all the political parties already pledging
generous tax cuts or public spending increases, or both.


His coalition has been the longest-lasting government since World
War II. He will be 56 in September and has said he will remain
active in politics until he is 60.


Ahern, who first became Taoiseach -- the Gaelic name for prime
minister which literally translates as chieftain -- in June 1997,
has negotiated for years with his British counterpart Tony Blair
to achieve a peaceful settlement in Northern Ireland.


On May 8, a power-sharing executive is to be established in
Belfast following an accord between the Protestant Democratic
Unionist Party (DUP) led by firebrand preacher Ian Paisley and
the Catholic Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish
Republican Army, led by Gerry Adams.

