

Segolene Royal draws cheers when she declares that she is in no
hurry to shake George W. Bush's hand while Nicolas Sarkozy gets
nods of approval when he says Europe must be free of US
influence.


Attacking US policy is standard fare in the French presidential
campaign, but whoever moves into the Elysee palace after the May
6 election is expected to work constructively with Washington,
analysts say.


Both Sarkozy and Royal have singled out France's role in Europe
as their foreign policy priority and called for a dialogue of
equals with Washington, described as a friend and ally.


After the French 'no' to the EU constitution in the 2005
referendum that plunged Europe into crisis and a bitter dispute
with the US over the Iraq war, France is choosing a president who
will have to approach diplomacy adeptly.


For Sarkozy, the rightwing frontrunner and candidate of President
Jacques Chirac's governing party, a much-publicized trip to the
United States in September has left him battling to dispel the
impression that he is "pro- American."


Sarkozy met Bush briefly and unabashedly praised the United
States in a speech that Royal's Socialist Party denounced as
proof that the former interior minister was an "American neo-
conservative with a French passport."


Royal accused him of "getting down on his knees" and
"apologizing" to Bush for French opposition to the Iraq war,
adding: "I am not for a Europe that aligns itself with the United
States."


A veto-holding member of the UN Security Council, France
considers its opposition to the Iraq war as probably its finest
hour on the international stage in recent years.


Sarkozy has said he made no such apology and stressed that good
relations do not mean submission to the United States.


"I want France to be free, I want Europe to be free. I therefore
ask my American friends to let us be free, free to be their
friends," he said in a keynote foreign policy speech in late
February.


"He is certainly more of an Atlanticist than Segolene Royal but
there is nothing to suggest that he will profoundly shake up
trans-Atlantic relations once elected," said Barthelemy Courmont
from the French Institute for International Relations.


On Iraq, Sarkozy as president is expected to call for a deadline
for US troop withdrawal, as would Royal in the Elysee, said
Courmont.


"Sarkozy definitely seems more pro-American than Chirac,"
commented Oliver Griffith, the executive director of the American
Chamber of Commerce in France.


"He has pulled back a little bit for election purposes because it
doesn't sell well in France."


Sarkozy's proposed economic reforms which provide for cutting
taxes and relaxing labour laws get top rating in US business
circles. The United States is the third largest foreign investor
in France after the Netherlands and Britain.


"We are facing globalisation. France, Europe and the US are
facing India, China and Brazil which are not competing on a level
playing field," said Griffith.


Sarkozy, the 52-year-old son of a Hungarian immigrant, has said
that if elected he will make Berlin his first destination to
relaunch the Franco-German engine of Europe.


He then plans to head to Brussels to chart the EU's future and
finally to Africa where French influence is waning.


After making a trip to Berlin, Royal also said that getting EU
institutions up and running is a priority and called for
maintaining France's independent foreign policy.


"The United States are our friends and our destinies are tied in
the face of international terrorism," Royal has said.


"But an alliance does not mean blindness. If I am elected, France
will maintain its independence of judgment and action vis-a-vis
the United States."


Dominique Moisi, a senior adviser at the French Institute of
Foreign Relations, says the new president will likely put his or
her domestic reform agenda ahead of any diplomatic initiative.


"The difference is not between Sarkozy on one side and Royal on
the other. The difference is between Chirac, who was passionate
about foreign policy, and Sarkozy and Royal who will put the
emphasis on domestic issues," said Moisi.


"They want France to restore confidence in itself, to find a new
dynamic before they can look at its role on the world stage," he
said.

