

Malaysia's ruling coalition won a key by-election with an
increased majority but analysts said Sunday it was only a
temporary setback to former deputy premier Anwar Ibrahim's hopes
of a triumphant return to politics.


The poll Saturday in the semi-rural seat of Ijok in central
Selangor state was widely touted as a litmus test of popularity
for both sides ahead of a general election expected before 2009.


The National Front or Barisan Nasional (BN) retained the seat
against the People's Justice Party, or Keadilan, with an
increased majority up 210 from the 2004 general election.


Anwar expressed disappointment after leading a spirited campaign
for Keadilan, which his wife heads.


"I am sad for Malaysia," Anwar said in his initial reaction to
the results.


"I have been talking about the fraudulent process all the while
but I did not think it was going to be so bad ... intimidation
and blatant bribery, the whole conduct of the election today
(Saturday)," he said.


Anwar promised to launch an official protest, bitterly alleging
that the by- election was ridden with fraudulent conduct.


Former prime minister Mahathir Mohamad fired Anwar after he faced
sodomy and corruption charges that landed him in jail for six
years.


Anwar's sodomy conviction was later overturned but the corruption
verdict still stands, barring him from standing for public office
until April 14, 2008.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said the BN win cemented the
people's confidence in the government.


"It was very fiercely fought, we faced everything that was thrown
at us but at the end of the day, we prevailed," said Najib.


"It's a good precursor for the next general election," he said.


Analysts had said Keadilan was unlikely to win the by-election,
but had predicted a reduced majority for the BN, which has
dominated Malaysian politics since independence in 1957.


"I was quite prepared to see BN winning even though the
opposition put on a strong fight, but I was surprised that they
(BN) had widened the margin," said Yang Razali Kassim, of the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Singapore's Nanyang
Technological University.


Yang told AFP the high voter turnout was a key factor that turned
the tide in favour of the ruling coalition.


"It is a setback for Anwar but while he may be down, he's
definitely not out yet. It's too soon to write him off at this
point," he said.


Anwar's campaign for Keadilan marked his first major contribution
to Malaysia's political scene since his 1998 sacking by Mahathir.


"Anwar is determined to become prime minister at all cost and I
believe he will continue to find ways and means to make himself
relevant," said political commentator Chandra Muzaffar.


After Saturday's defeat, the charismatic leader, known for his
fiery speeches, said he remained optimistic of his return to
politics.


"It's a very good turning point and I was able to articulate our
views, but we are dealing with a very dirty process," he said.

