

Australians celebrated their cricket team's third straight World
Cup victory Sunday tempered by sympathy for their Sri Lankan
opponents who were forced to end the batting in the rain-
shortened match in pitch-black darkness.


Prime Minister John Howard, often described as a "cricket
tragic", led the congratulations for skipper Ricky Ponting's men
with praise for outgoing fast- bowler and player of the series
Glenn McGrath.


Howard said he got up in the middle of the night to watch some of
Adam Gilchrist's record knock of 149 in Bridgetown, Barbados
which put Australia on the road to victory.


"My learned commentary is, my commentary is congratulations to
Ricky and the boys, but to Glenn McGrath, that lanky bloke from
Narromine, thanks for a wonderful contribution to Australian
cricket," Howard said.


"He joins the greats of Australian fast bowlers, he's a wonderful
bloke and he's been a wonderful player and he went out on a very
high note."


Australia's opposition leader, Kevin Rudd, said Australian
cricketers had taken the sport to new heights.


"What a great outcome," Rudd told the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation. "This is three on the trot. Congratulations to Ricky
Ponting and the boys."


"I mean what can you say about this team?


"I was privileged to be here for the entire Sydney test over the
summer and I've got to say I saw them in action, I saw them
through that fantastic Test series here (against England) over
the summer and they just keep taking the standard of Australia's
cricket professionalism to new heights."


Australia triumphed by 53 runs using the Duckworth/Lewis method
in a rain- shortened match concluded in confusion in gloomy
light.


Sri Lanka, chasing Australia's 281 for four in 38 overs, finished
on 215 for eight but still well short of their reduced their
target to 269 off 36 overs.


But confusion from the umpires saw the Australians celebrating
victory three overs before the end. The Sri Lankans were then
forced to resume the batting in darkness at the ground with no
lights.


Comments on Australian sports blogs were scathing of the
misunderstanding.


"What a joke. The players deserved so much more than that," John
wrote on The Sunday Telegraph sports website.


"What a shocking tournament, coach of Pakistan murdered, a rain
affected shemozzle of a final that should have been postponed,
along with the high farce of the final ending twice in pitch
black night," he wrote.


"The game descended into an absolute farce due to inept umpiring
decisions," agreed Aiti of Wollongong, south of Sydney.


"I am amazed, also, that the venue for the final had no lighting
facilities. I am sure that you would have needed radar to locate
the ball!.


"At the end of the day though -- the Australians won and
thoroughly deserved to win, having remained unbeaten through the
entire tournament."

