

At the age of 27, marketing executive Zack Chen is living the
modern China dream. Holidays in Europe, modern appliances at home
and a high-paying job with a foreign car company.


The problem for the world as it tries to tackle climate change is
that more than one billion other Chinese want to be just like
him.


"My parents bought their first fridge when I was born, it was a
small one from Romania," Chen said recently over dinner and beer
at a Turkish restaurant in Beijing as he recalled his once
frugal, but energy-efficient, lifestyle.


"My family stayed in grandma's house until I was 12. My parents
and I shared the same room."


Now, partly thanks to the extraordinary economic growth in China
that began with reforms in the communist country starting roughly
the same time that Chen was born, he is living a far more
enjoyable life.


Chen and his partner recently flew to London for a holiday, while
he jets throughout China for work and overseas around 10 times a
year.


Living in a two-bedroom apartment on the edge of Beijing's
diplomatic quarter with a television, microwave and air
conditioning, Chen's lifestyle resembles those of many in the
United States and elsewhere in the West.


Chen is also something of a rarity in China as he is very aware
of the carbon footprint he is leaving on the world.


After surfing on the Internet, he has calculated his lifestyle
leads to the emission of 10 tonnes of climate-changing carbon
dioxide each year, roughly the same amount as a regular person on
the West and three times as high as the average for other
Chinese.


While one person does not have a major impact on the climate,
China is a land of 1.3 billion people in which Chen's tale of
rags to riches, and the accompanying dependence on energy, is
being repeated in historic proportions.


As UN experts gather in Bangkok this week hoping to come up with
some solutions to curb the rise in greenhouse gas emissions that
threaten to wreak havoc across planet Earth, China is one country
that is of most concern.


A few years ago the International Energy Agency predicted that
China would overtake the United States as the world's biggest
producer of greenhouse gas emissions by 2010.


But China, which depends on coal -- a fossil fuel that is one of
the prime emitters of carbon dioxide -- for roughly 70 percent of
its energy needs, is now set to surpass the United States far
more quickly.


With its factories working to the limit and thousands of new cars
hitting the road daily amid double-digit economic growth, it
could become the number one culprit in climate change this year.


The International Energy Agency's chief economist, Faith Birol,
issued that warning in an interview with the Wall Street Journal
newspaper last week, and, while the Chinese government may
dispute the exact date, it does not reject the trend.


"It is quite possible that China will overtake the United States
to become the world's biggest emitter of greenhouse gases in the
next one or two years," Xu Huaqing, the director of the Climate
Change Centre at China's National Development and Reform
Commission, told AFP.


"The main reason for China's growing greenhouse gases emissions
is China's fast economic growth."


There is no doubt that China's leadership understands the
importance of taking swift action to slow the expansion of the
nation's carbon footprint.


"We urgently need to strengthen our work on saving energy and
reducing pollution as we face global climate change," Premier Wen
Jiabao said on Friday, as he vowed to target major industries in
an effort to curb greenhouse gas emissions.


China set a goal of reducing energy consumption per unit of gross
national product by 20 percent during the 2006-2010 period and
cutting emissions of key water and air pollutants by 10 percent
over the same period.


However, China badly missed the targets last year.


"This year is crucial," Wen said. "If we can meet our energy
savings and pollution reduction targets for this year, it will
form a good base as we go forward."

