

Rangers boss Walter Smith believes the spirit shown in a 3-3 draw
at Hibs augurs well for the challenges his side will face as they
seek to mount a more sustained challenge to Celtic next season.


The point edged Rangers closer to securing second place in the
SPL table and a spot in the second round of qualifying for next
season's Champions League.


"It was hardly an end of season game because there was a great
level of commitment from both sides," Smith said after watching
Rangers come from behind three times.


"The pleasing aspect is that we kept coming back, and that shows
good spirit which will stand us in good stead."


The home side's goalkeeper, Andrew McNeil, was at fault on the
Charlie Adam free-kicks which provided two of Rangers' goals as
Hibs blew the opportunity to claim all three points.


Adam has now scored 13 goals this season and Smith has been
delighted with the contribution of the midfielder.


"I knew what he was capable of -- it is a terrific return for a
midfield player in his first full season."


Aberdeen kept their slim chance of second place alive with a 3-0
win over Kilmarnock, but Rangers only need two more points to be
mathematically certain to finishing as runners-up to champions
Celtic.


Steven Fletcher had got Hibs off to a great start by firing them
ahead in the 20th minute after collecting a fine through pass
from Abdessalam Benjelloun.


Adam cancelled that out four minutes later with a free-kick from
the side of the box that McNeil will have been disappointed not
to keep out.


Kevin McCann restored the home side's lead in first-half injury-
time with an unstoppable drive from fully 25 yards.


Rangers equalised again nine minutes after the restart with
defender Alan Hutton finishing off a sweeping counter-attack
after being sent clear by Nacho Novo.


Hibs led for the third time when Steven Whittaker found the net
from just outside the area.


But, following the introduction of tricky winger Chris Burke,
Rangers won a free-kick on the edge of the area and Adam stepped
up to beat McNeil at his near post.


Rangers might have won the match in injury time, when Scotland
striker Kris Boyd got clear of the Hibs backline only to be
brought down by Guillaume Beuzelin, who was shown a straight red
card for the foul.


Aberdeen's win at Pittodrie was secured by a Barry Nicholson
penalty, a second- half strike by Lee Miller and a bizarre own
goal by Darren Mackie, who was looking the other way when
Kilmarnock goalkeeper Alan Combes threw the ball directly at him.
The ball bounced off the back of his head and back into the net.


Motherwell and Falkirk settled for a point apiece after battling
out a 3-3 draw at Fir Park while Inverness took a point from
Dundee United after a 1-1 draw at Tannadice.


The top flight will include Gretna next season after the Borders
side completed a remarkable climb through the ranks of Scottish
football by clinching the Division One title and promotion with a
last-gasp 3-2 win over Ross County.


James Grady's second goal of the match ensured that Gretna topped
the second tier by a point from St Johnstone and enjoyed a title
party for a third successive season.


The club, based in a village close to the border with England,
were admitted to senior football in Scotland in the summer of
2002 having previously played in a semi-professional league in
the north of England.


Their success has been bankrolled by self-made millionaire Brooks
Mileson but it is hard to see how it can be sustained.


The club's ground does not meet an SPL requirement for a minimum
6,000 capacity stadium and the current plan is for home games
next season to be played at Motherwell's Fir Park, which is a
two-hour drive from Gretna.

