

When Colombian naval officials seized two tonnes of shark fins in
a boat off the Pacific coast last week, they threw a spotlight on
a huge black market serving hungry Asian markets which is blamed
for pushing some species toward extinction.


Asian consumers prize the fins for use in making status-symbol
soups -- and one pound (450 grams) of fin can fetch 300 dollars.
Some shark-fin soups go for as much as 90 dollars a bowl in the
countries where the dish is most popular: Malaysia, Indonesia,
Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, South Korea and Thailand.


The Colombian-flagged vessel was arrested 18 nautical miles from
Malpelo island, a UNESCO natural world heritage site off
Colombia's Pacific coastline.


It was crammed with the fins of endangered sharks including
hammerheads, silkies, oceanics, white fins, black fins, fox shark
and reef shark.


Authorities arrested the crew on board and impounded the boat.


Cartels led by Japanese and Colombians are said to be behind the
big business of shark fins in the Colombian Pacific.


"The Asians control the routes and the markets, and they
intimidate the local fishermen and distributors who are paid a
pittance per kilo," about 30 dollars, said a Colombian official
with the Environmental Crimes Investigation Group, who asked not
to be identified.


Biologist Sandra Bessudo, who leads the independent Malpelo
Foundation, told AFP the illegal fishing situation was so
critical that a species believed unique to the waters around
sanctuary, the sol-rayo or ragged-tooth shark (Odontaspis ferox),
was in danger of dying out.


The foundation says that in 2003 alone, more than 13 tonnes of
shark fins were exported to Hong Kong, the equivalent of some
67,000 dead sharks. And an average of 350 ships -- mostly from
Japan, Taiwan, Ecuador and Mexico -- fish for the prize in
Colombian waters.


"There just is no doubt that the shark population has declined
considerably in Colombian waters in recent years," said Andres
Navia, director of the non- governmental group Squalus fighting
for protection of those sharks. "We are calling on authorities to
protect those that are still alive; it is an extremely urgent
matter."


Sharks are not the only groups under threat, by any stretch, in
Colombia. Marlins, large turtles and mollusks also are in danger.


Julia Miranda, director of Colombia's natural parks, said that
after illegal drugs, weapons trafficking and kidnapping, the
unlawful trade in animal species moved the largest amount of
dirty money in the South American country.


Fishing is banned in the Malpelo wildlife sanctuary, an area
which sprawls over 8,575 square kilometers (3,311 square miles).
The island area is also a sanctuary for birds, and a diving
paradise.

