

Robert Horry nailed a jump shot in the closing seconds and Tim
Duncan collected 20 points and 13 rebounds as San Antonio took a
two-games-to-one lead over Denver with a 96-91 win.


Tony Parker had 21 points and six assists for the Spurs, who used
a decisive third-quarter run to take control of Saturday's game.


The Spurs relied on their trademark defence in the final period
to secure the victory.


"A lot of times the pressure makes me play a little bit better,"
Horry said. "I don't want to let my teammates down or my fans
down. That gives me that extra energy to go out and play harder."


In his 15th season, Horry owns six championship rings as a member
of the Houston Rockets, Los Angeles Lakers and Spurs.


But the lanky forward was more than just along for the ride on
those squads.


Horry built a reputation for hitting clutch shots in the biggest
moments and it was no different Saturday.


The 36-year-old forward, who already has hinted that this will be
his last season, made sure a Denver comeback was thwarted.


After two free throws by Marcus Camby cut the Nuggets' deficit to
five points, Horry came up huge on the ensuing possession.


Losing his dribble temporarily in the left corner, Horry righted
himself and drained an off-balance jumper with his foot on the
line to make it 94-87 with 43 seconds left.


Denver did not recover.


"It was a physical game both ways, both teams got after it and we
ended up making enough shots to win," San Antonio coach Gregg
Popovich said.  "We're thrilled with the win against one (heck)
of a team.


"We played pretty good defence. I thought that Carmelo (Anthony)
got away from us, and we were poor on the boards, but our team
defence in general ... was pretty good."


San Antonio went on a 14-5 run to end the third quarter, capped
by Horry's three-pointer with six seconds left to make it 75-67.
The spurt set the tone for the final period, which featured shut-
down defensive efforts from Duncan and Horry as the Nuggets tried
to drive to the basket.


But it has not been easy in the series for the Spurs, who won 13
more games than Denver during the regular season and entered the
series as a heavy favourite.


Williams had 25 points and seven assists as the Utah Jazz used a
huge third quarter outburst for a 98-85 win over the Houston
Rockets to even their Western Conference first-round playoff
series at two games apiece.


Matt Harpring scored 17 points and Carlos Boozer collected 15 and
10 rebounds on Saturday for the Jazz, who improved to 10-5 at
home all-time in the postseason against the Rockets.


Utah put an exclamation mark on the period when Derek Fisher
stole a pass and fed Gordan Giricek for a three-pointer from the
left wing as the buzzer sounded, extending the lead to 83-62.


The Jazz shot 61 percent (11-of-18) from the field and outscored
Houston, 33-17, in the period and never looked back thereafter.


Houston's 1-2 punch of Tracy McGrady and Yao Ming, of China, were
held in check, combining for 38 points.  The tandem were
averaging over 53 points in the first three matchups.


Utah all-star Mehmet Okur finally came alive, finishing with 16
points and six boards. A 6ft 11in centre from Turkey, Okur shot
just 17 percent (six-of-35) in the first three games.

