

Retiring Australia coach John Buchanan said it was his nation's
destiny to be at the cutting edge of cricket after they'd won a
third straight World Cup title.


Australia's victory over Sri Lanka by 53 runs in a rain-affected
match here at Kensington Oval meant his players gave Buchanan,
54, a winning send-off in his last game as coach after eight
years in charge.


Buchanan, whose first-class playing career extended to just seven
matches with Queensland in the late 1970s, took charge of
Australia shortly after their 1999 World Cup triumph.


Although supervising a gifted side, featuring 2007 World Cup man
of the tournament Glenn McGrath, who retired as a player after
Saturday's game, and Adam Gilchrist, whose 149 was the highest
individual score in a World Cup Final, Buchanan has been credited
with extending the team's horizons.


Buchanan, set to concentrate on what had been a motivational
speaking sideline, had challenged the rest of the world to match
Australia's standards after they beat India in the 2003 World Cup
Final in Johannesburg.


But while now reluctant to pass on tips to other nations,
Buchanan was clear where the sporting future of Australia, whose
Institute of Sport in Canberra has been a template for many
countries, lay.


"I think it's our role always to lead change, to lead new ideas
to be right at the cutting edge of cricket or of sport in fact.


"Then it's up to other countries to try to chase us," Buchanan,
formerly coach of Queensland and English county Middlesex, added.


"I think in a sense we're not interested in what other countries
have to do, it's what we still have to do."


India, following the resignation of Greg Chappell and West
Indies, after the departure of Bennett King, are among two
leading sides looking for a new coach after World Cup failures.


But Buchanan said he'd no interest in becoming the latest
Australian to take charge of another country.


"I suppose you can never say never but right at the moment no. I
feel very loyal to the team that I coach and the players that
I've worked with. So right at the moment I'm looking to venture
into new territory altogether. This sort of role will be a thing
of the past for me."


Buchanan said the key to Australia's enduring success - they are
the world's best Test side and have now gone 29 games unbeaten at
the World Cup - began with the players.


"Each individual has strived for perfection all the time. From a
coach's point of view, that is the perfect team. The perfect team
is the one that keeps wanting to be better day in and day out.


"I've been basically a passenger for the last three years or so.
I get there (to practice), put the gear out and bring it back in
again."


But Australia captain Ricky Ponting said: "We shouldn't let the
coach get away with that. He's challenged us all the whole time
he's been in charge of this team.


"He's always been overlooked


"It's not an easy thing to do to take over a team that's already
playing good cricket and make it better.


"But he's been able to do that with me and with all of us. Some
of that is to do with the players, but a lot of it is also to do
with how you're coached as well."


And while Buchanan may have called time on his coaching career,
McGrath appeared ready to launch his own - for a price.


Asked what it would take to beat Australia, the smiling fast
bowler replied: "I don't think I'll give that away for free."

