

The Oakland Raiders selected quarterback JaMarcus Russell with
the No. 1 selection in the National Football League draft on
Saturday.


Russell's selection marked the sixth time in seven years that a
quarterback has been taken with the top overall pick.


And it filled a gap at the key position that has haunted the
Raiders for the past few seasons.


Russell declared for the draft after his junior year at Louisiana
State University.


NFL scouts tabbed him as having the strongest arm they have seen
since Michael Vick was drafted No. 1 overall in 2001.


Russell is not as fast as Vick, but he's bigger and stronger than
the Atlanta Falcons' explosive quarterback and outplayed
quarterback Brady Quinn in LSU's 41-14 victory over Notre Dame in
the Sugar Bowl.


Russell's ability to throw on the run makes him a perfect fit for
Oakland, which yielded a league-high 72 sacks last season.
Russell passed for 3,129 yards and 28 touchdowns while completing
nearly 68 percent of his passes last season.


Raiders owner Al Davis passed on quarterbacks Philip Rivers, Ben
Roethlisberger, Matt Leinart and Jay Cutler in the last three NFL
drafts and his team has paid for it.


Finding a franchise quarterback was clearly the biggest need for
the Raiders, who are 15-49 since losing Super Bowl 27 after the
2002 season.


Oakland had just seven touchdown passes from its quarterbacks
last season. That's 24 less than running back LaDainian Tomlinson
scored for the San Diego Chargers.


The Raiders set franchise records for most losses (14) and fewest
points scored (10.5 per game) last season.


In 2004, Davis had a chance to take either Rivers or
Roethlisberger with the second overall pick after quarterback Eli
Manning was selected first.


Instead, Davis took tackle Robert Gallery, who has been a
disappointment.


Last year, Leinart, who led Southern California to two national
championships, and Cutler were still on the draft board when
Davis took safety Michael Huff with the seventh overall pick.


New Raiders coach Lane Kiffin tutored quarterbacks Carson Palmer
and Leinart at the University of Southern California and likely
wanted Davis to select Russell.


Quinn, who was rated as the second-best quarterback in the draft,
had to wait more than four hours before the Cleveland Browns
selected him 22nd overall.


Notre Dame's all-time passing leader, Quinn grew up in Dublin,
Ohio, and wanted to play for the Browns. But Cleveland general
manager Phil Savage passed on the chance to take Quinn with the
third overall pick, instead selecting Wisconsin tackle Joe
Thomas.


Twenty other teams passed on Quinn before the Browns acquired the
22nd overall pick from the Dallas Cowboys and selected Quinn.


"I never anticipated things going the way they did," Quinn said.
"There was a rumor that Cleveland was trying to get back into the
first round to get me, but I wasn't sure it was going to happen."


Many league executives and scouts regarded Georgia Tech wide
receiver Calvin Johnson as the top player in the draft and he
went second overall to the Detroit Lions.


It marked the fourth time in five years that embattled Lions
president Matt Millen picked a wide receiver in the first round.

