

A government reshuffle to be announced by Indonesia's president
is unlikely to remove all ministers accused of incompetence and
corruption, analysts said.


Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Indonesia's first democratically
elected president, has come under pressure to make changes in the
wake of a slew of transport disasters in recent months that have
killed several hundred people.


Corruption claims also dog two ministers, prompting calls for
their removal, while authorities have failed to curb the spread
of deadly bird flu, and anger mounts over compensation payments
to Indonesia's mud volcano victims.


But instead of sacking the ministers responsible in the reshuffle
expected as early as this week, Yudhoyono will need to balance a
string of competing demands from parties crucial to his political
survival, analysts said.


"It is obvious that political interest will dominate (the
reshuffle)," said J. Kristiadi, from the Center for Strategic and
International Studies, a private think tank in the capital.


Yudhoyono, halfway through his five-year term, needs the
continued support of six parties to maintain a majority in
parliament, he explained.


"Yudhoyono's Democrat Party has only a few seats in parliament.
The president needs Golkar for his policies to pass through
parliament."


Golkar, the largest party in parliament and chaired by Vice-
President Jusuf Kalla, has been leading the call for change, by
replacing ministers with its own lawmakers.


But Yudhoyono fears giving Golkar more power ahead of 2009
general polls would jeopardise his own chances of reelection,
said Eep Saefullah, political analyst at the University of
Indonesia.


"President Yudhoyono will make the reshuffle in line with his own
2009 strategy," he told AFP.


Those tipped for demotion include Transport Minister Hatta
Radjasa, over recent sea and air disasters, including for an Adam
Air plane that crashed into the sea on New Year's Day killing all
102 people aboard.


A subsequent audit found none of Indonesia's airlines met all
minimum safety standards, sending shudders through the nation's
air-travelling public.


Home Affairs Minister Moh Ma'ruf might be replaced because of
ill-health, local media and analysts also said.


Justice and Human Rights Minister Hamid Awaluddin and State
Secretary Yusril Ihza Mahendra are in the firing line, amid
allegations they helped Tommy Suharto transfer money he is
suspected of corruptly obtaining.


The youngest son of former dictator Suharto, Tommy remains the
enduring symbol of the corruption that plagued his father's more
than three-decade rule.


But analyst Ikrar Nusa Bhakti, from the Indonesian Institute of
Science, said both ministers were skilled political operators and
could ride out the controversy.


"Awaluddin is backed by Vice President Jusuf Kalla while Yusril
(Mahendra) knows too many of Yudhoyono's secrets," he said.


Calls for Aburizal Bakrie, Coordinating Minister for Social
Welfare, to be moved aside, could also go unanswered because of
his seniority in Golkar and backing of Vice President Kalla,
analysts also said.


An energy firm linked to Bakrie has been blamed for triggering
the disastrous mud flow in East Java that has displaced 15,000
people and swamped infrastructure.


He also oversees multiple efforts to combat bid flu in Indonesia,
the nation worst hit by the virus with 74 deaths.


With economic growth forecast at six percent, Yudhoyono's finance
ministers are likely to remain, said Radja Panda Silalahi, an
economist with CSIS, despite chronic poverty and unemployment in
some areas.


Yudhoyono made a minor reshuffle in December 2005, transferring
three ministers and promoting another three.

