

Fears of a long-awaited property crash have increased in Spain
amid signs that rising interest rates, housing oversupply and
record levels of household debt are cooling a red-hot real estate
market.


A broad sell-off of construction and banking stocks last week
stoked worries that millions of homeowners, including some four
million foreigners who own property in Spain, mainly from Britain
and Scandinavia, will lose money.


The trigger for the fall in stock prices was the collapse of
shares in real estate group Astroc after an auditor's report said
the firm's 2006 profits were due in large part to the sale of
assets to the company's chairman.


Astroc, which was floated at 6.0 euros a share last year and
reached a peak of 75 euros in February, closed at 14.84 euros a
share on Friday, having lost more than 50 percent over the past
week.


The stock's plunge hurt sentiment for other property and
construction firms like Inmocaral and Sacyr, which lost over 10
percent on Tuesday before recovering ground later in the week.


The construction sector accounts for 18 percent of economic
output in Spain, the world's eighth-largest economy, and a severe
slowdown in the sector would likely have spillover effects.


The government has sought to calm jittery homeowners and markets,
arguing an orderly slowdown in property prices is under way.


Economy Minister Pedro Solbes said the slump in Spanish property
and construction stocks was a "major correction" but would not
would affect the economy on the whole which expanded 4.0 percent
in the first quarter.


"Are we are in a worrying situation? My thesis is that we are
not, because family income is consolidating, there are good
prospects for employment," he told parliament on Wednesday.


The low interest rates which followed Spain's membership in the
eurozone in 1999 fueled a housing boom as Spaniards took out
mortgages to buy homes for the first time or to trade up to a
larger home.


Housing prices climbed an average annual rate of 15 percent
between 1999 and 2005.


But the European Central Bank has increased interest rates in the
eurozone seven times since December 2005 to 3.75 percent with
further rate hikes anticipated.


This, combined with a high home ownership level which now tops 85
percent, has cooled demand for homes in Spain which the Paris-
based OECD warned in January were overvalued by up to 30 percent.


Housing prices rose 7.2 percent year-on-year during the first
quarter, their lowest increase since 1999, according to
government statistics.


Builders, however, continue to build. They secured permits to
build 800,000 homes last year, 200,000 more than estimated
demand.


"The country is over-housed, households are over-indebted and the
contruction industry continues to churn out houses," according to
British economic research company Lombard Street.


The rise in interest rates has not just cooled demand for new
mortgages. It has also helped increase bank loan default rates in
a country where over 90 percent of buyers have variable rate
mortgages at a time when household debt is well over 100 percent
of disposable income.


BBVA, Spain's second-biggest bank, reported Wednesday that its
loan default ratio rose to 0.59 percent in the first quarter from
the same time last year.


If debt levels increase further, homeowners will either have to
sell their houses -- which would lead to lower prices -- or they
will have to cut back on consumer spending, according to
financial consumer's association Ausbanc.


"If they restrict their lifestyle, and consume less, this will
have a negative impact on gross domestic product, as consumption
is a motor of Spanish growth," said the assistant director of
Ausbanc, Angel Garay.

