

Four hundred years after the first settlers from England planted
the seeds of what would become the United States of America, the
mother country bears no grudge, commemorative organizers say.


Lord Alan Watson, a British co-chair of the 400th anniversary
committee marking the founding of Jamestown, said the success of
North America's first permanent English settlement should be
celebrated in Britain as well.


"Had it failed, history would have been significantly different,"
Watson told reporters last week, ahead of Queen Elizabeth II's
visit Saturday to mark the founding of the Virginia community in
1607.


The first permanent English settlers in the New World found
difficult conditions, little food and rampant illness when they
first came across the ocean in search of riches.


Harsh living conditions and a high death rate from disease could
all have scuppered the project, as could have any Spanish naval
intervention.


And the survival of English trader Captain John Smith, who was
captured by the local Powhatan Indian tribe but saved from death
by the chief's daughter, Pocahontas, was also key.


"This is the anniversary of America but it's the anniversary of
lots of things," said Watson.


The colony marked the departure of English from the British
Isles, where it was spoken at the time by about four million
people, and its development into "the language of the global
village" spoken by nearly two billion worldwide.


The colonists also took with them English law, which provided the
basis for the US legal system and saw the establishment of the
first elected assembly in Virginia, albeit it with a limited
franchise, in 1619.


"If you look at what happened in the War of Independence (between
Britain and the 13 'United Colonies' that expelled royal
officials in 1775), the Virginia Assembly largely led the way.


"It would also lead to the abolition of slavery because it
basically put the right of the individual over overweaning power
of the state and played a vital part in the war of independence."


Lastly, the actions of the Virginia Company, set up by king James
I to establish settlements on the North American coast,
introduced the idea of capitalism, a defining feature of modern-
day America.


"The motivation of Jamestown was to make money. That idea of
basically using endeavour to create wealth in the joint venture.
That was definitely implicit and explicit in this venture," he
said.

