

Tamil Tiger aircraft bombed key installations in Sri Lanka's
capital in retaliation for a military air strike on their
territory early Sunday, a rebel spokesman told AFP.


Tiger planes targeted two oil storage facilities because they
provided fuel to Sri Lankan forces, spokesman Rasiah Ilanthiriyan
said.


"We sent two squadrons to target facilities that provide fuel to
military aircraft after two Sri Lankan airforce jets bombed a
suburb of Kilinochchi (inside rebel-held territory) just past
midnight," said the spokesman for the Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam.


He said the military had bombed the outskirts of Kilinochchi, 330
kilometres (206 miles) north of the capital, but gave no details
of casualties.


However, he said that within an hour of the military air strike,
the Tigers scrambled "two squadrons" to attack targets in the
capital Colombo and returned to their secret location two hours
later.


Authorities in Colombo activated air defences when suspected
Tiger planes entered the city's airspace early Sunday.


Troops fired anti-aircraft guns and power was switched off as
residents watched the country's national team lose to Australia
in the cricket World Cup in Barbados.


But the guns failed to bring down the guerrilla planes, officials
said.


Earlier Saturday, police and security forces sealed off Sri
Lanka's capital, searching every vehicle entering and leaving the
city amid fears of a Tamil Tiger attack.


There were huge traffic jams at every entry point to Colombo with
motorists spending several hours before they could be allowed in.
Doctors and other essential services were also stuck at
roadblocks.


"This is part of the operations to prevent Tigers getting into
the city," a police official said.


Sixteen people were detained for questioning after the
authorities searched nearly 10,000 vehicles and checked identity
papers of 16,500 people, police said.


Sri Lankan forces have been on high alert since the Tigers, whose
drawn-out campaign for an independent state for the island's
ethnic Tamil minority has left more than 60,000 people dead,
carried out their first aerial strike last month.


Security in the capital was stepped up after defence ministry
reports that Tamil Tiger guerrillas had entered the air space of
the island's only international airport overnight on Thursday.


The sky over the Katunayake international airport near Colombo --
where government war planes share a runway with civilian jets --
was lit up with anti- aircraft gunfire in response to the
incursion by a "suspicious aircraft."

