

British confectionery and soft drink giant Cadbury Schweppes,
facing mounting takeover speculation, outlined on Thursday plans
to split itself into two separate companies.


Cadbury, maker of Dairy Milk chocolate bars and Dr Pepper fizzy
drinks, said in a brief statement that it would separate its
confectionery and Americas Beverages businesses, and would
provide more details later this year.


"The company should in future concentrate on its confectionery
business while separating its Americas Beverages business,"
Cadbury chief executive Todd Stitzer told reporters in a
conference call on Thursday.


"We believe now is the right time to separate the businesses and
focus Cadbury on becoming the biggest and best confectionery
company in the world."


Speculation has mounted over a potential takeover of Cadbury in
recent days, with the company confirming last Tuesday that US
activist investor Nelson Peltz had built up a 2.98 percent stake
in it.


In London on Thursday, Cadbury's share price jumped 4.07 percent
to 626.50 pence, while the capital's FTSE 100 index gained 1.30
percent to 6,078.90 points.


Further information would be provided in a trading update in
June, the statement added.


Stitzer said that the group had not received any bids for its
beverages business.


The Times newspaper, meanwhile, had reported earlier on Thursday
that private equity groups Lion Capital and Blackstone are
weighing up possible bids for the drinks division. Both firms
were understood to have expressed their interest in the unit,
according to the paper.


Confectionery contributes about 60 percent of the group's
revenues, with the remainder coming from beverages.


Cadbury said last month that net profit jumped 50 percent in 2006
to 1.165 billion pounds (1.7 billion euros, 2.3 billion dollars)
following the sale of its Europe beverages business.


A salmonella food scare in Britain last year forced it to recall
more than a million chocolate bars, costing the company some 30
million pounds.

