

South Africa go into their World Cup match against the
Netherlands here on Friday having not been able to practice due
to rain on Thursday, but coach Micky Arthur believes his team is
mentally prepared.


"It's not ideal, but we have worked hard in the last few days and
the guys are on top of their game, so there was no point in just
going out and risking a possible injury," Arthur told reporters.


Intermittent rain denied South Africa practice at Warner Park
with clouds and showers predicted for the next 24 hours.


The Proteas are expected to win easily against their lowly-ranked
Group A rivals, but a wash-out could be a concern for Graeme
Smith's side who did not have an ideal build-up to the event.


They struggled to beat minnows Ireland before going down to
Pakistan by seven wickets in their warm-up matches last week.


South Africa's top-order, including Smith and reliable all-
rounder Jacques Kallis, still need a proper work-out in the
middle.


But Arthur said he was happy with team's preparations and the
build-up would not affect the team's performance in the crunch
Group A match against Australia on March 24.


"I think our preparations are good and we are comfortable with
where we are at the moment and there is no point worrying," said
Arthur who revealed Ireland have passed them useful information
about the Dutch.


"We have actually dug deep into the Netherlands and have managed
to trade off with Ireland. They gave us some information about
them and we gave them some on Pakistan and we went through some
video last night."


Pakistan, who lost their opening match to the hosts West Indies
on Tuesday, meet Ireland in Group D on Saturday.


Arthur singled out South African-born, Dutch allrounder Ryan ten
Doeschate as a potential threat.


"He is their best player and a good cricketer who bowls in the
right area."


Arthur hoped his team uses the new ball well during the World
Cup.


"The new ball is going to be a factor, how well you can use it in
terms of not losing wickets and, in the same way, getting more
wickets with it when you bowl."


Defending champions Australia, South Africa's bitter rivals, got
off to a flying start with a crushing 203-run win against
Scotland on Wednesday.


The top two teams qualify for the next round of Super Eights.

