

Top Al-Qaeda operative Khalid Sheikh Mohammed has admitted
masterminding 31 terror plots around the world including the
September 11 attacks on the United States, the Pentagon said.


"I was responsible for the 9/11 operation, from A to Z," Mohammed
said in a statement read by a US military officer at a closed-
door military hearing at the US camp for "war on terror" suspects
at Guantanamo.


A partial transcript of the hearing was released by the US
Defense Department on Wednesday.


Mohammed is considered a senior deputy to Osama bin Laden. He
also claimed responsibility for the 1993 World Trade Center
bombing and the 2002 bombing of a nightclub in Bali, Indonesia,
among others, according to the transcript.


He had plans for attacks around the world, including Britain,
Singapore, the Panama Canal and to kill the pope and former US
presidents.


The September 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington left
nearly 3,000 dead and 202 people, mainly Westerners, were killed
in the December, 2002 attack in Bali.


Mohammed has been kept in controversial circumstances, most of
the time in complete secrecy, since his capture in Pakistan in
2003. Allegations have been made that he was tortured while in US
custody.


Mohammed gave the military tribunal at Saturday's hearing a
written statement regarding alleged abuse.


The tribunal president asked Mohammed if any statements he made
to interrogators were "as the result of any treatment that you
received" from his capture in 2003 up until before his arrival in
Guantanamo in September 2006.


"CIA peoples. Yes. At the beginning when they transferred me ..."
The rest of the transcript was redacted.


Mohammed gave to the tribunal a long, rambling justification for
his actions as part of a holy war against the United States.


"What I wrote here, is not I'm making myself hero, when I said I
was responsible for this or that," he said in broken English.
"But your are military man. You know very well there are language
for any war."


"If America they want to invade Iraq they will not send for
Saddam roses or kisses. They send for a bombardment ... For sure
I am American enemies," he said.


"But when you said I'm terrorist, I think it is deceiving
peoples. Terrorists, enemy combatant. All these definitions as
CIA you can make whatever you want."


Mohammed is one of 14 prime suspects who will appear before the
latest military panels at Guantanamo on their so-called "enemy
combatant" status. So far six have appeared before the review
panels.


The hearings are to determine whether the detainee can be deemed
an "enemy combatant." Such a designation would clear the way for
a trial before a US military tribunal.


Mohammed is the most important of the 14, who were moved to
Guantanamo last year from secret CIA detention facilities
overseas.


President George W. Bush closed the CIA facilities after an
adverse Supreme Court ruling. He acknowledged that the prisoners
had been subjected to an "alternative set of (interrogation)
procedures."


Bush did not outline the methods, but critics have claimed CIA
agents used techniques tantamount to torture, such as
waterboarding -- simulated drowning -- and exposed prisoners to
extremes of temperature and sensory deprivation.


The treatment of "war on terror" suspects has sparked criticism
at home and abroad. None of the 14 has had access to a lawyer.
Instead they are represented at the hearings by a military
officer.


The Pentagon released redacted transcripts of Mohammed's hearing
along with those of two other captured Al-Qaeda operatives -- Abu
Faraj al-Libi and Ramzi bin Al-Shibh.


Mohammed told the hearing he was "not happy" about the 3,000
victims of the 2001 attacks by Al-Qaeda hijackers who brought
down the World Trade Center towers and slammed into the Pentagon.


"I feel sorry even. I don't like to kill children and the kids
... I don't like to kill people."


At one point, he compared bin Laden to George Washington, who led
American forces against British colonial rule and became the
first US president.


"He is doing the same thing. He is just fighting. He needs his
independence," he said.


Evidence found on computers linking Mohammed to the September 11
attacks and other plots was presented during the hearing.


The Pentagon deleted one of the items in the list of 31
operations for which Mohammed claimed responsibility.


Mohammed laid out a dizzying assortment of attacks and plots
against US, British and Israeli targets, including a "second
wave" of attacks on US skyscrapers and other landmarks that were
supposed to follow September 11.


The Empire State Building in New York, the Sears Tower in
Chicago, the Library Tower in California and the Plaza Bank in
Washington state were among the targets.


The New York Stock Exchange and other financial sites were
targeted for destruction, he said.


"I was responsible for planning, surveying and financing for the
operation to destroy Heathrow Airport, the Canary Wharf Building,
and Big Ben on British soil," his statement said.


Former US presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter and Pope John
Paul II were assassination targets.


Mohammed said he was behind the bombing of a hotel in Mombasa,
Kenya, frequented by Jewish travelers, an attack that killed two
US soldiers in Kuwait, a "shoe bomber" operation to bring down
two US airplanes, and a plot in the 1990s to blow up a dozen US
airliners over the Pacific.


He said he plotted operations against US warships and oil tankers
in the Straits of Hormuz, the Straits of Gibraltar and Singapore
and planned to bomb and destroy the Panama Canal.

