

The widow of a British soldier killed in Iraq in a "friendly
fire" attack appealed to United States President George W. Bush
on Thursday for the US to help the high-profile investigation
into his death.


Lance Corporal Matty Hull died in March 2003 when two US planes
opened fire on his tank near Basra, southern Iraq, after
mistaking a British convoy for enemy vehicles.


Despite repeated requests from the British government, Hull's
family and the coroner conducting the inquest into his death,
Washington has blocked requests for access to witnesses and
documents about the incident.


Susan Hull, 30, told the inquest in Oxford, central England, that
she met Bush in November 2003 and he had asked if he could be of
assistance in the investigation.


"He assured me that he would do all he could to help," she added.


"President Bush, this is the last day you can help us. We ask
that you give the coroner just one single page."


The page in question is a blanked-out section of an official US
report given to the coroner which relates to communications and
procedure during the incident, the Hull family says.


A British military air controller based in the area at the time
of the attack told the inquest Monday it would not have happened
had US pilots followed British rules on opening fire.


While British pilots must listen to the location and coordinates
of their targets, plus information on the proximity of allied
forces, and read them back to air controllers, the US does not
have such rules, the inquest heard.


Hull's widow told the hearing Thursday that the coroner had twice
appealed for the document in question to be declassified but
still did not have it.


"We have 1,110 lines of evidence from this document - but 11 are
blanked out," she added.


"To President Bush and the US Government -- we implore you to
release the 11 lines and let the coroner have these today, so
that our family can feel more satisfied with the transparency of
this inquest."


A classified video of the attack shot from one of the two A-10
Thunderbolt planes involved, leaked to a newspaper last month,
featured a US pilot saying "We're in jail, dude" after learning
of Hull's death plus weeping and swearing.


The inquest is likely to finish Friday. Possible verdicts include
unlawful killing and accidental death.

