

A report on the funding of British political parties commissioned
against the backdrop of corruption claims recommended Thursday a
cap on the size of donations they receive.


Former top civil servant Sir Hayden Phillips, whose report was
ordered by Prime Minister Tony Blair last March when "cash for
honours" first hit the headlines, described the current system as
"unsustainable".


A 50,000-pound (73,000-euro, 97,000-dollar) limit on donations
from any one source would be "reasonable", he said.


His report came as the police inquiry into whether parties
offered seats in the unelected upper chamber, the House of Lords,
to wealthy donors in return for financial support is rumoured to
be drawing to a close.


Media speculation has been rife that someone in Blair's inner
circle could face charges within weeks. Two of the prime
minister's closest aides have been arrested as part of the
investigation but deny wrong-doing.


"It is perfectly rational for parties to seek new or additional
funding, whether from organisations or individuals," Phillips
wrote in the government- commissioned report.


"But in doing so, they risk further damaging public confidence in
the probity and equity of party financing.


"Although our political system is one of the cleanest in the
world, if the public suspects that influence over parties may be
bought by the rich and powerful, this can only serve to erode
further the support for political parties."


Blair welcomed the report, saying: "The time has come for us to
find a new settlement on party funding and expenditure."


His governing Labour Party and the main opposition Conservatives,
alongside Britain's third party, the Liberal Democrats, will now
hold talks on the issue within the next few months, which should
pave the way for new legislation.


The Phillips report also said that parties should cut their
spending on general elections by 20 million pounds over five
years.


The ruling Labour Party and main opposition Conservatives spent
90 million pounds between them on the last poll, in 2005.


A furore erupted early last year after Labour and the Tories
admitted receiving 14 million pounds and 16 million pounds in
secret loans before the 2005 general election.


The Lib Dems borrowed 850,000 pounds.


Phillip's report recommends an increase in state funding for
parties, saying they should receive 50-pence each year for every
vote they received at the most recent general election and
25-pence for votes in the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly and
European Parliament.


Overall, the reforms should cost no more than 25 million pounds
per year, he said.

