

Almost two decades after the fall of communism, Poland has
launched a drive to expose former secret police collaborators
with a law that critics denounce as too like the measures of the
old regime.


The new law, which came into force on Thursday, requires some
700,000 Poles to come clean about possible past ties with the
loathed Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa (SB) -- or risk losing their jobs.


Critics, however, say the system may only reveal half-truths and
paint a simplistic picture of a period when many people found it
unavoidable to compromise with the all-powerful regime.


A former foreign policy aide to President Lech Kaczynski, Andrzej
Krawczyk, who was recently accused and cleared of having helped
the SB, blasted the new rules.


"This is a really bad law," he said, adding: "It will cause
hundreds of human tragedies."


Previous rules applied to around 30,000 of Poland's 38.2 million
people, including lawmakers, government ministers and judges.


The new law widens the net to cover academics, journalists,
managers of state- owned firms, school principals, diplomats and
lawyers.


They will be required to fill out declarations saying whether or
not they collaborated with the SB -- or face the sack. Their
statements will be checked against the former secret police
archives.


The law applies to anyone in the affected professions born before
August 1, 1972.


The legislation was masterminded by Lech Kaczynski and his
identical twin, Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski, whose
conservative Law and Justice party came to power in 2005.


The Kaczynskis, who were active in the underground opposition,
made casting off the legacy of communism a major plank of their
election campaigns.


The Kaczynskis are among those anti-communists who were never
satisfied by the de facto amnesty for regime members and
collaborators accorded by Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki in
1989.


Mazowiecki became the first non-communist premier in eastern
Europe since World War II that August, after an election deal
between the regime and the underground opposition.


A sweeping purge at the time appeared impossible because the rest
of the communist bloc remained in place for months.


The Kaczynski camp faces resistance from liberal members of the
former anti- communist opposition.


Several leading journalists in the private sector have threatened
a boycott, saying the law smacks of the methods of the old
regime.


Wojciech Mazowiecki, son of the former premier, said that being
vetted would be "as humiliating as being forced by the communist
police to sign a declaration of loyalty".


Ewa Milewicz, who was also a pre-1989 dissident, said: "If I was
a member of the anti-communist opposition, it wasn't so that I'd
have to come up years later with proof that I am 'clean'. It
wasn't so that I'd have to 'confess' my good and bad sides to
anyone."


Their public sector counterparts may have little choice.


"Journalists who did not fill in their declarations will be
dismissed, as will those who confess that they collaborated,"
said public radio chief Krzysztof Czabanski.


Polish academics are in a similar situation because they are also
paid by the state.


Come-clean forms will be submitted to the National Remembrance
Institute (IPN), a body created in 1998.


The IPN, which is the guardian of Poland's communist-era
archives, says it expects to take "years" to check the forms
against its holdings and publish them on the Internet.


While admitting SB ties does not bring automatic punishment,
lying means a 10-year professional ban. People who believe they
have been wronged will have to turn to the courts.


Spending years settling accounts will undermine the goals the
law, claimed Krawczyk, saying: "Thirty years after the end of
communism, will we understand how the system worked?"


Krawczyk signed a deal with the SB when he was arrested in
possession of anti- communist leaflets. He cracked after being
threatened with jail, but later broke the agreement.

