

Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica on Thursday again
accused the UN mediator for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, of
favouring the ethnic-Albanian side in talks over the future of
the province.


"Ahtisaari has gone over to one side, that of the Albanians, and
has made biased proposals," Kostunica told the Tanjug agency.


He called for fresh talks that would lead to an agreement
respecting international law and the Serbian constitution.


Kostunica was speaking after UN special envoy Ahtisaari announced
that the matter would go to the UN Security Council after talks
between Serbia and the Kosovo Albanians over the future of the
province failed Saturday.


Belgrade has already called for a new round of talks and on
Saturday Kostunica accused Ahtisaari of openly supporting
Pristina's call for independence.


The UN envoy's draft proposal had avoided any mention of
independence for the province, offering instead the trappings of
statehood under European Union-led supervision and with a NATO
security presence.


It also provided for self-rule and protection for the 100,000
minority Serb population in the province, promising them close
ties with Belgrade.


But Kostunica on Thursday repeated that he did not believe the UN
Security Council would support Ahtisaari's proposal, which
violated the UN's own charter.


The UN has administered Kosovo since June 1999, when a NATO
bombing campaign helped to halt a crackdown by Belgrade security
forces on armed separatists and their supporters among the
province's ethnic Albanian majority.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


Since the UN and NATO moved in to Kosovo however, more than
200,000 Serbs have fled and hundreds have been killed in a series
of violent reprisal attacks by ethnic Albanian extremists.


The international community wants to move on from the status quo
in the southern Serbian province, whose 90 percent ethnic
Albanian majority has ruled out any institutional links with
Belgrade.

