

US giant General Electric's healthcare unit said it will step up
investments and expand its workforce in India, seeking to tap a
booming market for medical equipment and plentiful engineering
talent.


"India is a key part of our globalisation effort," Joe Hogan,
president and chief executive of GE Healthcare, told reporters in
Bangalore.


"Based on the globalisation standpoint and the inherent growth of
the Indian marketplace, we will continue to aggressively invest
here," he added.


"We think it's a good place to invest."


UK-based GE Healthcare, the only General Electric unit to be
headquartered outside of the United States, has invested 100
million dollars so far in India where it employs 2,200 people and
manufactures equipment including X-Ray, ultrasound and electro
cardiogram machines.


Hogan did not specify the size of the planned investment or
recruitment.


The Indian arm's sales at home and abroad reached 450 million
dollars in 2006, and local business is growing at an annual pace
of 20 percent, said V. Raja, who oversees local operations.


India, where the company has a third of its engineering
workforce, also contributes about 15 percent of GE Healthcare's
manufacturing output.


In expanding in the country, GE Healthcare is seeking to take
advantage of India's engineering talent rather than save on
labour costs, said Hogan.


"At one point in time, 10 years ago, India was about arbitrage on
labour," he said. "Today, I don't look at it that way at all.


"I look at India as a place where you can find some of the best
engineers in the world. That's why we have to be around, to make
sure that we use that talent not just for the Indian marketplace
but also all over the world."


GE Healthcare, a 17 billion dollar business, is focussing on
India to take advantage of an economy expanding at nine percent a
year and an affluent middle- class estimated to make up a third
of the country's 1.1 billion population.


As incomes rise and medical insurance coverage spreads, more
Indians are able to afford expensive medical care and private
healthcare institutions are mushrooming to cater to the demand.

