

World oil prices rose on Thursday before an output decision from
the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Counties, which is
widely expected to keep production levels unchanged, traders
said.


The oil market was also helped by a steadier performance across
global stock markets, with European and Asian indices clawing
back ground on Thursday after an overnight rebound on Wall
Street, they said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for April delivery added 59
cents to 61.65 dollars per barrel in electronic trading. The
contract expires at the close.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, gained 41 cents to 61.65 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


"Crude futures were higher (on Thursday) ahead of an OPEC meeting
in Vienna where the group is widely expected to leave current
supply curbs unchanged," analysts at the Sucden brokerage said.


Calyon analyst Mike Wittner added that "it's possible the markets
are reacting to the rebound in equity markets."


OPEC, satisfied with the price and demand-supply balance for oil,
will decide at a meeting underway in Vienna on Thursday to hold
its output target at 25.8 million barrels per day, ministers
said.


"We believe there is a consensus among OPEC member countries to
maintain production quotas," Venezuelan Energy Minister Rafael
Ramirez told reporters before entering an OPEC ministerial
meeting, where a formal decision on output was due.


Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Nuaimi had said in an interview
published Thursday in the pan-Arab daily Al-Hayat that there was
"no reason to change (the level) of production," as crude futures
easily topped OPEC's 60-dollar target level in London trade.


Nuaimi's comments are watched closely by the oil market since his
country is the world's biggest producer of crude.


"The market situation is satisfactory, the state of stocks
(energy inventories) is satisfactory," added the Saudi.


In its monthly report published on Thursday, OPEC said that world
oil demand would grow by 1.5 percent in 2007 from the level last
year, matching its forecast in January and February.


OPEC was meanwhile holding its latest meeting after brushing off
further slides to global equity prices on Wednesday.


Crude futures had finished with slim gains on Wednesday as
traders tracked world equity markets, patchy US energy reserves
and the build-up to the OPEC meet.

