

France coach Raymond Domenech has blasted Arsene Wenger saying he
is "getting seriously tired" about the Arsenal manager's
grumblings over the way the national side are mismanaging Thierry
Henry.


"Once and for all, this problem needs to be sorted out.


"I'm starting to get seriously tired of Mr Wenger, and he is
starting to get on everyone's nerves. He doesn't know absolutely
everything.


"He is not the only one who has a right to exist in the world of
football." fumed Domenech on Thursday.


Wenger this week blamed Henry's below-par season on what he
believes has been the striker's poor handling by the French
national team.


Henry has suffered from various injuries this season and has now
been ruled out for the rest of Arsenal's Premiership campaign
with groin and stomach trouble suffered in their Champions league
exit to PSV Eindhoven.


And Wenger said: "I don't take responsibility for that (the
injury) because I feel Thierry has been badly managed by the
French national team."


Wenger's main grievance stems from an international friendly
against Bosnia, on August 16 - in which Henry played the full 90
minutes - three days before the start of the Premiership season.


"I don't know how he can explain what he means when he says that
a player who plays in August gets injured in March," countered
Domenech.


"He (Wenger) forgot to say that every time Thierry Henry played a
match for France, three days afterwards he was playing for
Arsenal. He was never injured whilst playing any of the matches
for France.


"We never allowed ourselves to take the risk with a player. We
have a clear conscience. Every one does their job. I don't need
any lessons here," he added.


"I am tired of these attacks, which are not especially against
me. Mr Wenger has criticised the France team for a long time.


"He criticised (UEFA president) Michel Platini the day he was
elected. After awhile it becomes tiring.


"It is not because you have trouble at your club that you look
towards others," he concluded.

