

Leading campaign groups on Thursday joined UN human rights chief
Louise Arbour in a staunch defence of the Human Rights Council's
powers to investigate violations in specific countries, amid
fears they will be removed.


The 47-member Council formed last year has until June to finalise
its rules. Some governments that have been under scrutiny want to
remove the appointment of Special Rapporteurs or experts who
investigate countries of particular concern, diplomats said.


Human rights groups have dubbed the Special Rapporteurs "the eyes
and ears" of the UN's rights mechanism, while former UN secretary
general Kofi Annan called the experts' achievements under the
predecessor body, the Commission, "remarkable."


"The 'special procedures' are the core of the UN human rights
mechanism," said Irene Khan, secretary general of Amnesty
International, referring to the formal name for the process.


"Kofi Annan called it the jewel in the crown, our fear is that
some governments are trying to sell the crown jewels," she added.


Human Rights Watch said in a statement: "The Commission's failing
was not that it addressed too many human rights situations, but
too few."


Some countries like Cuba want to eliminate the process, which was
regarded as one of the succesful parts of the Council's
discredited predecessor body.


Havana's record on civil liberties has been sharply criticised by
the UN Special Rapporteur on Cuba, Catherine Chanet, and she has
been barred from carrying out missions in the country.


Others like Algeria have said they support a "code of conduct",
but western diplomats and human rights groups fear that could
amount to a straitjacket.


Arbour, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, told the
Council Wednesday that the process of country examinations was
one of "the essential tools that the Council has."


"To ensure universal cover and avoid gaps in human rights
protection, the Council should encourage states to reinforce
their cooperation," she added, underlining their role as an alert
mechanism.


A senior European Union official signalled recently that an
unravelling of the process would be unacceptable.


"For us it is also essential, a red line, that we have country
procedures, rapporteurs and resolutions," the official said.

