

Paul McCartney's estranged wife Heather Mills insisted Thursday
she still loves the former Beatles legend, despite divorce
proceedings which have threatened to turn ugly in recent months.


Breaking her silence over her feelings about the couple's
separation, she said she would never recover from her
relationship with the 64-year-old.


"I will never get over it. I will always love Paul. He is the
father of my child but I just have to move on and deal with it
and there is nothing I can do," she told BBC News 24 television.


"I have never spoken badly about my husband. I never will -- he
is the father of my child," she said.


But the 39-year-old also lamented in a separate interview that
securing a divorce deal from the former Beatles legend was like
"getting blood out of a stone."


Asked by Sky News television how long the divorce could take, she
replied: "I've got no idea. It's like getting blood from a stone.
It could take a year, I've got no idea," adding: "It's not down
to me, it's all down to me hubby."


Mills and the former Beatle announced the end of their four-year
marriage last May.


But the divorce has turned into an acrimonious affair played out
in the media, with leaked divorce papers in November claiming
McCartney mistreated Mills, his second wife.


One press report last month said McCartney is planning to offer a
25-million- pound (38-million-euro, 49-million-dollar) settlement
to end the bitter divorce battle.


Mills also accused the media of mistreating her, alleging that at
one stage she was pushed around by photographers trying to get a
"bum and belly shot" when she was seven months pregnant.


She also alleged that higher forces were behind the media's
attitude to her.


"It's a big powerful group of people behind this whole campaign
against me," she said, saying all she wanted was balanced
coverage, "not just the one sided, 'let's crucify and vilify
Heather'" reporting.


But she insisted: "I won't be bruised and beaten down. I won't
allow this to happen," adding: "It's very hard, it's very
difficult, but I will get through."


McCartney and Mills appeared in court in London on March 1 for a
preliminary hearing in their divorce.

