

The European Union voiced disappointment after another round of
talks on key police reforms in Bosnia stalled Thursday ahead of
EU enlargement commissioner Olli Rehn's visit to Sarajevo.


"We are disappointed with the lack of progress achieved here,"
the spokesman for Bosnia's office of the European Commission,
Frane Maroevic, told AFP.


Rehn, due in Sarajevo on Friday as part of his tour of the
region, was expected to "underline the need to move forward with
the reforms," Maroevic said.


The leaders of the ethnically divided country ended late
Wednesday another round of negotiations on the police reforms
without success.


The EU insists on the unification of police forces in Bosnia's
two entities, the Serbs' Republika Srpska and the Muslim-Croat
Federation.


"Every day that has been lost in the reform process represents a
delay in the country's aspirations to move closer to the EU,"
Maroevic added.


Bosnia opened talks in 2005 on a Stabilisation and Association
Agreement, seen as the first step on the long path toward full EU
membership, after its leaders agreed in principle to the police
reforms.


The Balkan country completed its final technical round of
negotiations on the SAA in December, but was asked by Brussels to
complete the desired reforms before being allowed to sign the
agreement.


Changes to the public broadcasting system and improved
cooperation with the UN war crimes tribunal in The Hague are
other requirements expected to have been completed last year.


Serb politicians who generally oppose strengthening of central
institutions insist on retaining control of police in Republika
Srpska, while Croat and Muslim leaders want the forces to be
unified and put under the authority of the state.


Meanwhile, the international envoy to Bosnia, Germany's Christian
Schwarz- Schilling, also expressed "concern and disappointment"
over the stalled police reforms.


"If no progress is achieved in the coming days and weeks, Bosnia-
Hercegovina will suffer significant delays in its effort to
establish closer ties with the EU," his office said in a
statement.


"It will also continue to fall behind other countries in the
region," it warned.


Two former Yugoslav republics, Croatia and Macedonia, signed SAAs
in 2001 while the third, Montenegro, is expected to initial its
agreement later on Thursday.

