

Pakistan's acting top judge has summoned the Islamabad police
chief and other officers for allegedly "manhandling" the
country's suspended chief justice, a spokesman said Thursday.


Television footage showed police officers apparently restraining
Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry when he tried to walk to the Supreme
Court following his removal on Friday by President Pervez
Musharraf.


He later made his way by car to the court, where he was due to
appear before a judicial council on unspecified charges of
misconduct and abusing his position. The hearing was adjourned
until Friday.


A spokesman for the Supreme Court in Islamabad said Chaudhry's
acting replacement, Javed Iqbal, had decided to summon the top
police officers over the reported incident.


"The inspector general, deputy inspector general, senior
superintendent police and deputy superintendent of police will
appear before the Supreme Court on March 19 to explain their
position," the spokesman said.


Musharraf's attempts to remove Chaudhry sparked protests and a
three-day strike by lawyers across the country. Further unrest is
expected on Friday when Chaudhry appears back at the Supreme
Court.


Police in pre-dawn raids Thursday detained some two dozen
political workers in the eastern city of Lahore, ahead of a
protest planned by the opposition.


"We have detained 24 individuals after intelligence reports that
they posed a threat to the peace and security in the city," a
senior Lahore police officer told AFP.


Major political parties, including those of former prime
ministers Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif as well as an alliance
of six Islamic parties, have joined hands to stage rallies after
Friday prayers.


"It is our right to protest the suspension and subsequent
manhandling of the chief justice and we will go ahead with our
protest despite police threats," Ameerul Azeem, a spokesman for
the Islamic alliance, told AFP.


More than 20 lawyers were injured on Monday when police used
batons to break up their rally in Lahore.


Rights groups have warned of a constitutional crisis and
opposition parties have seized on the issue.


Chaudhry has vowed to fight the allegations against him and
claims that he has been detained at his house in Islamabad.


The government denies that he is under house arrest and says the
issue should not be politicised.

