

Global stock markets bounced back on Thursday as sharp-eyed
investors snapped up bargains, with European and Asian indices
following Wall Street higher following recent sharp falls,
dealers said.


The modest recovery came despite lingering concerns over the
faltering US housing sector, they added.


"Equities were oversold in the past sessions, leaving many stocks
looking cheap and investors rushed into buying," said Michael
Davies, analyst at the Sucden brokerage in London.


Stock markets in Frankfurt, London and Paris had suffered heavy
losses on Wednesday, averaging more than 2.5 percent, on mounting
concerns that a crisis in the US housing market could infect the
broader economy and dampen growth.


The sharp falls had shattered the markets' recovery from an
earlier global equities rout late last month. That had been
sparked by fears of a speculative bubble in the Chinese stock
market -- and a potential US economic slowdown.


However, underpinning Thursday's encouraging gains, economists
remained optimistic about prospects for the Asian economies,
driven by fast-growing China and India, dealers said.


But they cautioned that investors were still wary about the US
housing market after news that the number of bad mortgage loans
is rising and causing deep financial troubles for firms that lent
to borrowers with patchy credit histories -- in the so-called
"sub-prime" lending sector.


There is also continued nervousness about the recent unwinding of
carry trades -- where money is borrowed in countries with low
interest rates such as Japan in order to invest in higher
yielding assets elsewhere.


"Investors breathed a brief sigh of relief after seeing a rebound
on Wall Street and bought back shares," said Masatoshi Sato,
senior strategist at Mizuho Investors Securities, after US stocks
ended higher on Wednesday.


"The second wave of turmoil appears to have eased but investors
are still groping their way in the dark," he added.


In European trading on Thursday, London's FTSE 100 index of
leading shares added 1.58 percent to 6,095.80 points in late
morning deals.


Frankfurt's DAX 30 rebound 1.68 percent to 6,555.89 points and in
Paris the CAC 40 regained 1.29 percent to 5,364.60 in early
afternoon trade.


Other markets also moved higher, with Zurich up 1.35 percent,
Milan rising 1.27 percent and Amsterdam adding 1.30 percent in
value.


However, the outlook for European banks with exposure in the
United States remained unclear, Merrill Lynch analyst Stuart
Graham wrote in a note to clients.


"Simply because the market has more than priced in the possible
downside risk from the US sub-prime exposures does not
necessarily mean the sector will bounce back quickly, in our
view," Graham said.


"Our economists fear that the tightening of credit standards for
sub-prime borrowers will constrain housing demand and lead to a
deeper than expected slowdown in the US."


Tokyo led the Asian markets up but ended off its highs, with the
Nikkei-225 index adding 1.10 percent after Wednesday's 2.92
percent tumble.


Chinese share prices closed 1.56 percent higher after declining
nearly two percent on Wednesday following a raft of economic data
that raised concerns that regulators would have to take new
measures to cool economic growth.


Other Asian markets also snapped back. Hong Kong firmed 0.70
percent, Sydney won back 1.93 percent, Taipei added 1.66 percent
and Seoul put on 1.39 percent.


But Manila closed 1.0 percent lower and dealers said further
gains in the other markets might be limited with overall
sentiment still cautious due to the concerns about the US
economy.


Overnight Wednesday, Wall Street opened on an ominous note a day
after New York shares saw their worst losses since the February
27 rout, sending the blue-chip index briefly below 12,000 points
for the first time since November.


But New York reversed course late in the day, with the Dow Jones
Industrial Average closing up 0.48 percent at 12,133.40 points.


Investors were also watching the outcome of the OPEC meeting in
Vienna later Thursday although they were not expecting the oil
cartel to adjust its production quota of 25.8 million barrels per
day.


Oil prices firmed in London and New York, holding close to 60
dollars per barrel, as OPEC ministers began their huddle in the
Austrian capital.

