

Lawyers for the family of slain Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant
Dink on Thursday filed a motion for a judicial probe into
officials they accused of being implicated in the murder.


"We submitted to the prosecutor a request for a (judicial)
investigation against all public officials already facing
administrative charges in connection with the case," Lawyer Bahri
Bayram Belen told reporters here.


"We believe it will not be possible to shed light on this
political assassination if all the blame is put on a few children
from poor families," he added.


The January 19 murder of the editor of the Turkish-Armenian
weekly Agos is the work of a "well-structured organisation...
that aims to prevent democracy from functioning in Turkey," Belen
said.


Police have so far arrested 11 suspects in connection with the
killing, including Ogun Samast, an unemployed 17-year-old a high
school dropout who, officials say, has confessed to gunning down
Dink, 52, outside the Agos offices in Istanbul.


Most of the suspects are from the Black Sea city of Trabzon -- a
bastion of nationalism -- and are believed to be close to
ultranationalist groups who hated Dink for his views on the World
War I killings of Armenians under Ottoman rule.


Dink described the 1915-1918 killings as genocide, a label that
Turkey, the Ottoman Empire's successor, categorically rejects.


Interior ministry inspectors are currently looking into
allegations that Istanbul police received a tip-off last year
about a plot to kill Dink being organised in Trabzon, but did not
follow up.


Showing a copy of a note from Trabzon police informing their
colleagues in Istanbul of a plot to murder Dink, lawyer Fethiye
Cetin said 17 similar messages in all had been sent to the
Istanbul police.


"These prove that it was not negligence or forgetfulness, but the
conscious participation of the authorities in this crime," she
said.


A preliminary investigation has been launched against Istanbul
police chief Celalettin Cerrah and another senior officer on
charges that they failed to act on the intelligence received from
Trabzon.


Another investigation is under way against Trabzon's governor and
police chief, already removed from office amid accusations that
they failed to seriously investigate groups of ultra-nationalist
youths in the city.

