

Palestinians unveiled a new unity cabinet on Thursday they hope
will usher in a new era by stopping months of deadly factional
violence and ending a crippling international aid boycott.


But Israel immediately said it would not deal with the new
coalition, which unites the radical Islamist Hamas movement with
president Mahmud Abbas's secular Fatah party and was formed after
weeks of wrangling over the lineup.


"We hope that this government will mark the start of a new era
and enable us to turn the page," prime minister-designate Ismail
Haniya of Hamas said after submitting the list of ministers to
Abbas.


"We are going to do everything in our power to strengthen
national unity, obtain a lifting of the siege imposed on the
Palestinian people and improve our links with the international
commuinity."


The Palestinian parliament is expected to vote on the 25-member
cabinet on Saturday.


The international Quartet for Middle East peace -- the European
Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United States --
slapped an aid freeze on the Palestinian government a year ago
when Hamas, considered a terror group by Israel and the West,
came to power.


It has insisted that the Palestinian government renounce
violence, recognise Israel and agree to abide by past peace deals
for the flow of funds to resume.


The EU and the United States said they would withhold judgement
of the new cabinet until they could study its platform.


Arab League secretary general Amr Mussa hailed the cabinet and
called on the international community to immediately lift the
boycott of the Palestinians.


But Israel rejected any contacts.


"We will not recognise or deal with this government or with
members of this government and we expect the internatiional
community to stand firm in their demand to adopt the three
principles," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin said.


Israel froze ties with the Palestinian Authority after a shock
January election win by Hamas -- which does not recognise the
Jewish state's right to exist -- and has been dealing solely with
the moderate Abbas.


A second meeting in less than a month between Prime Minister Ehud
Olmert and Abbas on Sunday failed to produce a breakthrough in
the peace process, which has been stalled since 2003.


A senior Israeli official had told AFP that if Gaza militants
released a soldier captured nearly nine months ago and stop
firing rockets, "Israel will use a pragmatic approach that will
allow working with the government."


The official said Israel feared cracks were appearing in the
Quartet over whether to maintain the aid boycott.


"There is a certain erosion in the international approach towards
the Palestinians, especially in Europe," the official said.


The EU said it would stick to its wait-and-see stance until it
had a chance to study the new cabinet lineup and its programme.


No decision on renewing direct ties would be taken "before we can
judge the programme and actions of the next government," European
Commission spokeswoman on external affairs Emma Udwin said.


In Washington, State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said:
"We will wait until the government is actually in place and we
have an understanding of what their platform will be before we
make any final judgements about it."


And the White House urged Abbas to find ways to abide by the
international conditions. "Our position's been consistent, which
is: You need a Palestinian government that is going to, in fact,
abide by the Quartet conditions," said spokesman Tony Snow.


Hamas assumed power last March after unexpectedly trouncing long-
dominant Fatah, triggering the aid freeze that has wreaked havoc
on the Palestinian economy.


As Abbas's Fatah and Hamas wrangled for months over forming a
coalition with the aim of breaking the boycott, simmering
tensions between the rival parties often exploded into street
violence that has killed dozens of Palestinians.


They agreed at a summit in Mecca last month to form a unity
government to end the power struggle, but stopped short of
agreeing to meet Western conditions for resuming aid.


Under the terms of the power-sharing agreement, Hamas has 12
cabinet seats and Fatah six, with the rest coming from either
independents or small parties.


Independent or third-party candidates will occupy the influential
posts of foreign, finance and interior ministers.

