

Hungarian police braced for violence in the capital on Thursday
after reports that far-right extremists planned to hijack
peaceful anti-government protests to mark national day.


Several hundred protestors gathered in front of the parliament
building in Budapest chanting "traitor" at Prime Minister Ferenc
Gyurcsany and calling on him to quit, marring a morning flag-
raising ceremony.


Police sealed off the area around parliament throwing up metal
barriers in surrounding streets, but no incidents were reported.


However, intelligence services have warned that extremists have
been preparing coordinated attacks, as the country holds
traditional rallies and commemorations to mark the failed 1848
war of independence against Habsburg rule.


"There are significant risks that certain groups are considering
procuring objects that do not qualify as weapons but could be
used even to kill," a statement by the office of the minister in
charge of the national security agency said last Friday.


It said these included special nails for obstructing police
vehicles and horses. "They also plan to use Molotov cocktails and
smoke grenades," it said.


Amid high security, police aim to stem any return of violent
street riots that rocked Budapest in September and October,
triggered by the leak of an audio tape in which Gyurcsany said he
knowingly misled voters on the economy in parliamentary
elections.


Airspace over parts of the city has been closed off and more than
100 closed- circuit cameras installed around the capital over the
past few days.


Several thousand protestors also headed to the National Museum on
Thursday, many waving the red-and-white striped "Arpad flag," a
historic Hungarian flag that has become a symbol of the far-right
since the country's pro-Nazi regime used a similar flag during
World War II.


Budapest's Liberal mayor Gabor Demszky was hit with an egg by
jeering far-right protestors as he made a speech despite being
shielded by security guards holding up umbrellas.


Later, the far-right Hungarian Justice and Life Party is
scheduled to hold a rally in the capital where the British
Holocaust-denying historian David Irving is reportedly expected
to speak.


The main right-wing opposition Fidesz party will also hold its
anti-government rally later in the day, expected to draw tens of
thousands of supporters.


Officials fear in particular a repeat of October 23 when violent
far-right protestors tried to join a peaceful rally by the Fidesz
party on the 50th anniversary of a failed anti-Soviet uprising.


A number of Fidesz sympathizers were also caught in the police
crackdown that day, in which authorities were accused of using
excessive and indiscriminate force to restore order.


Several far-right groups have already said that they will try to
join the Fidesz rally on Thursday.


The Socialist-Liberal government has accused opposition leader
Viktor Orban, who heads Fidesz, of seeking to attract extremists
by symbolically organizing its rally at the Elizabeth Bridge,
where violent protestors threw up barricades and burned cars on
October 23.


Fidesz has denied the accusation and said it would fully
cooperate with police to ensure order at the rally.

