

The budget for the 2012 Olympics in London has soared to 9.3
billion pounds (18 billion dollars), the British government
announced on Thursday.


When Britain won the Olympics in 2005, the cost of building the
Olympic Park, main venues and associated transport and other
infrastructure was projected at 2.4 billion pounds.


In a statement to the House of Commons, Culture Minister Tessa
Jowell said that figure had now risen to an estimated 4.8 billion
pounds with the government also obliged to fund an unanticipated
Value Added Tax (VAT) bill of 840 million pounds on the
construction costs.


A further 2.7 billion pounds has been allocated to a "contingency
fund" to allow for future increases in the budget.


The rest of the increase is accounted for by 600 million pounds
in security costs and a further 390 million pounds for the
Paralympics and the funding of community sports coaches.


Jowell said that two thirds of the cost of the games -- around
six billion pounds -- would be provided by central government.


A further 2.2 billion pounds will be provided by Britain's
National Lottery -- 675 million pounds more than previously
envisaged -- with the balance coming from local authorities in
London, who have agreed to stump up an additional 300 million.


The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, has pledged that this will
not lead to any increase in local taxes or transport costs for
Londoners, beyond those already announced.


The new figures provoked an angry reaction from the opposition
Conservative party, with shadow Olympics Minister Hugh Robertson
describing the increases as "a sign of massive financial
incompetence from the Government.


"The two largest cost over-runs, VAT and contingency, were
perfectly predictable at the time of the bid," Roberson said.


There was also concern that the increased contribution from the
National Lottery will have a negative impact on grass-roots
sports which rely on its funding.


Richard Yule, chief executive of the English Table Tennis
Association, said the government was undermining one of the key
aims of the London Games -- increasing ordinary Britons'
participation in sport.


"This cut in funding to community sport will impact on the
ability of national governing bodies to capitalise on the once-
in-a-lifetime motivational impact of a home Olympics to deliver
an increase in participation through their clubs and volunteers,"
Yule said.


Sport England chairman Derek Mapp echoed that criticism, saying
the cuts which will follow the transfer of increased funds from
the National Lottery to the Olympics "seriously endangers the
creation of a sporting legacy from the 2012 Games."

