

The international community should take a "far tougher line"
against Sudan over atrocities in Darfur to prevent extremism
spreading across Africa, British Prime Minister Tony Blair said
Thursday.


In an interview on Sky News television which focused mainly on
Iraq, Blair offered a robust defence of his views on combating
radicalism and said countries needed to act to prevent future
security threats.


"I would today take a far tougher line on Sudan," he said after
reaffirming his belief in what he called the "worldwide link"
between "global terrorism".


Asked if that meant sending in British troops, he said: "I don't
think we are able to send troops in but I certainly think the
international community should be.


"They should be saying to the Bashir government in Sudan: if
you're not prepared to comply with what the United Nations are
saying, we're going to get progressively harder with you..."


Blair's comments came after Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir
last week backed away from a deal reached in November last year
to allow a 20,000-strong UN peacekeeping force into Darfur
alongside African Union troops.


Khartoum has repeatedly prevented international intervention in
the troubled western region, where more than 200,000 people have
been killed and at least two million displaced in a four-year
civil war.


Most of the violence against the ethnic African people in the
region has been blamed on militia backed by the Arab-led
government.


Amid international calls for an end to the bloodshed and the
threat of sanctions, Blair said: "I believe if Sudan descends
much further into the chaos that is already there, it'll spread
across that part of Africa, you will get new radicalisation going
on because this extremism is now preying on all of these
conflicts.


"And my view is, at some point the world has got to wake up and
understand we are in a fundamental conflict with these people and
we are going to win when we stand up to them.


"If we carry on apologising for ourselves leaving them the excuse
of saying, it's because of George Bush that they're doing these
terrible things or ridiculous nonsense like that, the more we
give in to their propaganda and ideas the less chance we have of
protecting our security."

