

Inflation in the 13 countries sharing the euro held steady in
February at 1.8 percent, the European Union's Eurostat data
agency said Thursday, confirming a previous estimate.


The rate was spot on private economists' forecasts and was in
line with the European Central Bank's preferred level of close to
but less than two percent.


The stability of inflation since the beginning of the year has
confounded many economists and politicians' expectations for a
surge after Germany raised valued added tax three full percentage
points in January.


Nevertheless, the European Central Bank raised its key interest
rates to a five- and-a-half-year high point of 3.75 percent last
week to keep a lid on inflation in the bloc.


In the 27-nation European Union inflation also remained unchanged
in February at 2.1 percent.


Headline inflation has closely tracked the trend on global oil
markets recently where the price of crude has dropped from a
record peak of around 78 dollars a barrel in mid July to about 60
dollars currently.


Twelve-month eurozone inflation most recently peaked at 2.5
percent last May and June as oil prices soared in response to
tensions in the Middle East.


Meanwhile, underlying inflation, which excludes the impact of
volatile items like energy prices, has remained largely tame
although it has picked up in recent months.


Stripping out the impact of energy and unprocessed food, consumer
price inflation, 12-month consumer price growth rose to 1.9
percent in February from 1.7 percent in December, Eurostat said.


Bank of America economist Holger Schmieding said that the upward
drift in underlying inflation "could be a significant worry for
the ECB", although it could also be explained by special factors
such as the increase in German value added tax.


UBS economist Edward Teather said that signs of rising labour
costs would be of greater concern to the ECB after Eurostat also
published data on Thursday showing that the hourly cost of
employing workers is rising faster than expected.


Eurostat said labour costs rose 2.4 percent in the final three
months of 2006 over one year, slightly above expectations for an
increase of 2.2 percent.


Meanwhile, Eurostat also revised data for the third quarter
sharply higher to 2.5 percent from 2.0 percent in a previous
estiamte.


"The ECB clearly sees wage growth as a key driver of the often
repeated warning that there are upside risks to inflation," said
Teather.


With the eurozone in the midst of a strong economic recovery and
unemployment at record lows, many workers are demanding wage
increases as companies rake in bumper profits and begin to find
it difficult to get qualified workers.


The ECB left the door open on Thursday to further rises in
eurozone interest rates, after executive board member Lorenzo
Bini-Smaghi said that "if growth is very strong, it's clear what
we will do."

