

The European Union said it would put pressure on members of the
Southeast Asian regional grouping ASEAN at talks here on Thursday
to urge Myanmar to improve its human rights record.


Foreign ministers from the 27-country EU and the 10-nation
Association of Southeast Asian Nations were expected to agree a
declaration enshrining an enhanced political partnership.


But European participants said that Myanmar, ruled by a military
junta, was a significant hurdle to establishing a free trade deal
between the two regional blocs.


External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner said
Myanmar, which the EU and the United States accuse of massive
human rights violations and repressing political dissent, was not
ready to be included in such an agreement.


"We want to see Myanmar change and this of course, I would say,
is the first step. We have not seen that yet, but we are going
on," the commissioner told journalists before going into
Thursday's meeting.


Ferrero-Waldner said the EU would discuss human rights with
Myanmar's foreign minister who is in Nuremberg, but added "it is
also for our ASEAN partners to bring them into going into human
rights, into democracy, having an inclusive national dialogue and
finally seeing Aung San Suu Kyi released."


Aung San Suu Kyi, a Myanmar opposition leader and Nobel Peace
Prize winner, has been under house arrest since 2003.


On trade, Ferrero-Waldner said she favoured granting preferential
conditions to selected ASEAN states but leave the door open for
others to join later.


"My idea is that we can start with those countries that really
are ready for it and then that the others... can then opt in."


ASEAN's membership ranges from wealthy Singapore to impoverished
Cambodia and Laos.


German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, whose country
currently holds the EU presidency, called on Wednesday for the EU
and ASEAN to pool their combined resources of more than one
billion people and work together on tackling climate change and
international terrorism.


"The era of nation states is over, at least to the extent that
none of our countries can solve these problems on its own," he
said.


Steinmeier said the EU's recent commitment to reduce emissions of
carbon dioxide would be futile unless other countries took
measures to curb pollution.


"These targets can only be fully effective if other international
partners come on board too," he said.


Steinmeier said ASEAN could also play a significant role in
international efforts to find peace in the Middle East, where a
Palestinian unity government was unveiled on Thursday.


"A number of our partners in ASEAN have developed their own close
links to the Middle East and at a time when a number of efforts
are under way... our ASEAN partners can be very helpful as they
have something to offer of their own."


The gathering in the southern German city marks a milestone as EU
and ASEAN are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the
establishment of their relations.


ASEAN comprises Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia,
Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.

