

Wartime French Resistance heroine Lucie Aubrac, who famously
rescued her husband in a daring attack on a German convoy, died
on Wednesday in a Paris hospital at the age of 94, her family
said.


In October 1943 Aubrac was with a group of fighters who ambushed
a truck bearing Raymond Audrac and 13 other resistance members
from Gestapo headquarters in the southeastern city of Lyon.


It became one of the most celebrated Resistance exploits of World
War II, and the theme of two films "Lucie Aubrac" and "Boulevard
des Hirondelles."


Tributes poured in for the wartime legend, who after the Lyon
attack travelled secretly to London with her husband and young
child to join the administration in exile of Charles de Gaulle.


President Jacques Chirac said that "From the first hours of the
occupation she rose up against defeatism and surrender. She was
an emblematic figure of the central role of women in the
Resistance."


Chirac said he had spoken to Raymond Aubrac, who is 92, by
telephone to express his condolences.


Socialist presidential candidate Segolene Royal said Aubrac was
"one of the great figures of the Republic. This great Resistance
member embodied the French people's struggle for freedom, and the
participation of women in the combat."


Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, candidate of the ruling
centre-right, said that "with Aubrac's death one of the most
beautiful pages in the history of the Resistance is turned. In
the name of freedom, she rejected submission, hatred and anti-
Semitism."


Born Lucie Bertrand on June 29, 1912 to a Burgundy winemaking
family, Aubrac became a history and geography teacher.


Married in 1939, she and her husband -- whose real name was
Raymond Samuel -- helped set up one of the first underground
groups in German-occupied France. They took their nom de guerre
from the Aubrac region of the Massif Central mountains.


In June 1943 Raymond Aubrac was captured alongside de Gaulle's
Resistance chief Jean Moulin in a notorious raid by the Gestapo
on a doctor's house in the Lyon suburb of Caluire. Moulin's
importance was quickly discovered. He was transported to Paris
and later died from torture.


Over the next weeks Lucie Aubrac -- whose identity was unknown to
the Germans -- managed to meet Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie and
other officers in Lyon, and by a trick won permission to see her
husband in jail.


The October 21 attack took place as he was being transported back
to prison from interrogation by the Gestapo. Four German soldiers
were killed and all the prisoners escaped.


After the war Aubrac was a jury member in the court which tried
the Vichy leader Philippe Petain. She returned to teaching, and
for the rest of her life gave talks in schools about her wartime
experience. She also campaigned for progressive causes, such as
Algerian independence.


In 1998 she and her husband won a libel case against a historian
who raised questions over their role in the Lyon resistance.


Gerard Chauvy based his book on comments allegedly made by Barbie
during his imprisonment in France from 1983 to 1991 to the effect
that the Aubracs were traitors to the Resistance. The claim is
not taken seriously by historians.

