

Thailand must balance a military response to a worsening
insurgency in its Muslim-majority south with ongoing efforts to
launch peace talks, a leading think-tank said Thursday.


"The government must respond to the escalating attacks, but with
care -- widespread arbitrary arrests and civilian casualties
would only increase support for insurgents," the International
Crisis Group said in a new report.


Thailand's government, which took power after a coup in
September, has overhauled many of the policies of ousted prime
minister Thaksin Shinawatra, whose heavy-handed approach may have
exacerbated the conflict, the report said.


"But verbal commitments in Bangkok have been difficult to
translate into changes on the ground, and relations between
security forces and local communities continue to be strained
while violence mounts," it said.


Army-installed Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont has taken
important steps toward peace, including an apology to Muslims for
past abuses, announcing an end to blacklisting of suspected
insurgents, and reviving key conflict management institutions, it
said.


He also made an offer to open peace talks, but insurgents have
responded by stepping up their attacks, the report said.


"Many villagers fear both the insurgents and the security forces
and are caught between the two," the think-tank said.


"Ultimately, some form of negotiated autonomy may be the only
answer, but the conditions that would make dialogue possible are
not in place," it said.


"The government has been unable to identify the leadership of the
insurgency. Indeed, it is not clear that there even exists an
overall leadership capable of controlling the various groups
committing the violence."


The increasingly bloody attacks have hardened public opinion in
the rest of Thailand against negotiations, the report said.


The think-tank urged Thailand to continue trying to identify
groups that might be willing to open talks, while building public
support for dialogue.


Authorities should also deploy joint Buddhist-Muslim security
teams to work in religiously divided areas, while redesigning the
local education system to address residents' desire to use their
local dialect of Malay, it added.


Southern Thailand, which was once an autonomous Malay sultanate,
has a long history of separatist unrest. The latest conflict
erupted three years ago and has claimed some 2,000 lives.

