

Nepal's government said Thursday it had decided to halve the
number of staff working at the royal palace, where embattled King
Gyanendra is struggling to hold on to his throne.


"The cabinet meeting on Thursday decided to withdraw 50 percent
of the total civil employees working in the Narayanhiti Royal
Palace," Deputy Prime Minister Amik Sherchan told AFP.


The approximately 400 staff affected by the decision would be
reassigned to a government ministry, he added.


Since being forced to end direct rule and reinstate parliament
after mass protests last April, King Gyanendra has been stripped
of most of his powers including his position as head of state.


Earlier this week, Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala called
for the king to abdicate -- an about-face for a premier who had
previously been seen as sympathetic to the throne.


The king has been accused of trying to undermine a peace deal
between the government and Maoist rebels, who are lobbying hard
for Nepal to be declared a republic.


The king's ultimate fate is scheduled to be decided after
elections due in June for a body that will rewrite the
constitution.


A palace staffer, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that
he had heard of the government plan to cut palace employees, but
declined to comment further saying it was a "government matter."


King Gyanendra's Shah dynasty has a 238-year history, and Nepal's
kings have for centuries been revered as incarnations of the
Hindu Lord Vishnu, the god of protection.


But the monarch has had a tough five years as king since he was
vaulted to the throne by the massacre of his brother, King
Birendra, and most of the royal family, by a drink-and-drug
fuelled crown prince who later killed himself.


Since the king abandoned his ill-fated attempt at direct rule
aimed at crushing the Maoists, he has been accused of abuse of
power and has been stripped of his status as head of state.


Even the state bank has decided to remove images of the king from
bank notes.

