

Britain is to remain in the global nuclear club after parliament
voted to renew the country's Trident nuclear deterrent but
critics said Thursday its influence over non-proliferation is
diminished.


The vote, in which 87 of Blair's parliamentary Labour colleagues
opposed him and 95 called for a delay in the decision, was also
seen as sign he is leading a divided and less disciplined party
that could spell trouble ahead.


But Labour Party chairwoman Hazel Blears played down the
significance of the dissent and said she had "no doubt
whatsoever" the prime minister's likely successor, finance
minister Gordon Brown, would pursue the policy.


Britain's decision comes amid growing global concerns over
nuclear proliferation, with Iran suspected of trying to build a
bomb and an international effort to persuade North Korea to
dismantle its nuclear arsenal.


In the fall-out from Britain's latest crunch vote, Blears
rejected suggestions on Thursday that Blair was a "lame duck"
with dwindling authority.


"The issue of nuclear weapons has always been an incredibly
emotional decision in the Labour Party, but even on this issue, a
majority of Labour backbenchers did support this decision," she
told BBC radio.


"I think any Labour leader would have found themselves in exactly
the same position, Tony Blair or whoever else."


The Financial Times agreed, saying strong views were always
expected -- unilateral nuclear disarmament was party policy in
the 1980s -- and a cliff- hanging result was never likely because
of Conservative Party support.


It also assessed that Blair, who is expected to resign in the
coming months, may have done Brown a favour by tackling the issue
now.


"If Mr Brown had been forced to renew Trident early in his
premiership, a Labour rebellion could have been highly damaging,"
it added.


The Labour rebellion was the largest since the March 2003 vote on
whether to invade Iraq and the issue is unlikely to go away.


The FT quoted one unnamed Labour MP criticising the lack of
consultation on the matter: "If Gordon thinks he can run the
parliamentary party like this over the next few years he'd better
think again."


And left-wing Labour MP John McDonnell, who is hoping to stand
against Brown in a leadership election, warned: "This is only the
beginning of the campaign against Trident's replacement."


"The scale of this rebellion clearly demonstrates that the prime
minister has completely misjudged the overwhelming mood in the
party."


The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) pointed to the wider
implications of the decision, which means Britain can begin
preparations to replace the four nuclear submarines that carry
the US-built missiles.


CND has led protests against Trident, arguing among other things
that it will increase proliferation at a time when Britain is
opposed to states like Iran and North Korea obtaining atomic
weapons.


Blair last December justified the decision for Britain to retain
its nuclear deterrent on the grounds that North Korea, Iran and
other states were pursuing the bomb, after India and Pakistan
joined the nuclear club a few years ago.


The leader of the smaller opposition Liberal Democrats, Menzies
Campbell, has also questioned the extent of Britain's future role
in non-proliferation talks in 2010.


"A hasty decision to replace Trident is bound to undermine our
ability to have influence at the conference in 2010," he told
Blair on Wednesday.

