

Traditional German lederhosen with a built-in cellular phone, a
bathroom mirror that can give current stock quotes and a BMW
sports car that can talk and listen drew the crowds Thursday as
the world's top high-tech fair opened.


The CeBIT telecoms, computers and electronics trade fair in the
northern German city of Hanover is a showcase of the visionary
and the strange each March and this year is no exception.


Leading the parade of gadgets are the leather trousers preferred
by thigh- slapping Bavarian dancers but this time they have a
modern twist: a sewn-in mobile phone.


Made by century-old German all-weather clothier Lodenfrey, the
lederhosen feature a mouthpiece embedded in the suspender straps
and a row of unobtrusive olive green buttons down the side of the
thigh -- but away from potential slaps.


"Mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the richest of them all?"


"Bathroom TV" by German firm ad notam allows you to monitor your
stock portfolio with a wireless beamer projected on to the
mirror. And a waterproof remote control can join you in the
bathtub.


Meanwhile a new digital restaurant menu may make sluggish service
a thing of the past.


"Papeo," short for Portable Assistant for Personal Electronic
Ordering, means that guests no longer have to wait for the waiter
to place an order but can use a touchscreen to communicate
directly with the kitchen or the bartender.


"Papeo not only takes and forwards orders and writes up the bill,
it can also entertain customers at their tables or flash
advertising," said Ludwig Hitzenberg of the University of
Regensburg in southern Germany which developed the technology.


Cauliflower ear from chatting on the phone for hours? Austria's
Urban Tool has developed the answer with the perCushion, a pillow
with an integrated telephone and a built-in, long-lasting
battery.


The German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence has
dreamed up a BMW sports car that can communicate with the driver.


While some may get flustered with all the standard functions of a
modern automobile -- GPS navigation, onboard computers, climate
control units, electronic entertainment -- they can now simply
hold a conversation.


The SAMMIE dialogue system is fluent in English and German.


"It's too hot," "play the Arctic Monkeys CD," and "show me the
directions to the next petrol station" meet with a spoken
response by the car before it carries out the request or asks for
clarification.


Tech-savvy grannies who want to stay in their own homes as long
as possible may one day be able to turn their own four walls into
an ultra-modern assisted living facility.


Germany's Fraunhofer Institute has built a small-scale prototype
of an "intelligent apartment". If a walking stick falls, a chip
inside triggers a loud speaker to ask if granny is alright. If
there is no answer, an ambulance is called.


A "thinking" drinking cup monitors the intake of fluids in the
course of a day and reminds the patient if she falls short. A
refrigerator can keep track of smart radio tags on food packaging
and sound the alarm if the expiration date as passed.


Fraunhofer has also developed a virtual mirror that allows you to
design your own shoes, selecting the colours, soles and styles
from dozens of options.


The mirror then shows the customer a vision of himself wearing
the shoes before he even tries them on.


"Thanks to the 3-D image manipulation technique developed at
Fraunhofer, the software is so fast that it can follow the
customer's movements in real time," said product developer
Juergen Rurainsky.


A prototype of the mirror can already be seen in an Adidas shoe
store on Paris's Champs-Elysees.


The CeBIT runs through March 21.

