

President Jacques Chirac on Thursday hailed France's newest and
fastest TGV rail service as a "major industry success", saying it
would generate economic growth and jobs.


"This admirably demonstrates France's capabilities in research,
development and innovation," Chirac said of the new TGV-Est rail
service that is to be officially inaugurated later in the day.


The TGV-Est will see trains bolting from Paris to the eastern
city of Strasbourg at a record speed of 320 kilometres (200
miles) per hour.  It opens to passengers on June 10.


The new line will cut travel time to the eastern city down to two
hours and 20 minutes from the current four hours, and further
open up rail service to Germany and Luxembourg.


"The TGV-Est is a symbol of our policy of town and country
planning, a policy that I wished for France, with state-of-the-
art transport and high passenger flow everywhere by the end of
2007," said Chirac.


The president described the 300-kilometre high-speed rail line as
a "major industry success" during an Elysee luncheon for
representatives of the TGV-Est's financial backers.


Work on the new rail service was launched five years ago at a
cost of four billion euros (5.8 billion dollars) that is being
shared among 22 financial partners at various levels of the
French government as well as Luxembourg, the European Union and
the French state-owned railway SNCF.


The TGV-Est will allow passengers to reach Luxembourg from Paris
in about two hours, Frankfurt in less than four and Munich in six
hours and fifteen minutes.


"By shortening the distances, attracting businesses and
accelerating flows, it will constitute a true catalyst for
economic activity, with some 16,000 jobs in the offing," said
Chirac.


The president, who is stepping down in May after 12 years in
office, lauded trains as not only faster and cheaper than planes
but also greener -- noting that they spew "far fewer greenhouse
gas emissions".


The inauguration on Thursday will be a lavish affair with
organisers preparing what is billed as the longest fireworks
display in the world.


A spectacular light show is scheduled for the evening with the
entire 300 kilometers of the new rail line aglow with torches for
three minutes.

