

The UN said Thursday it urgently needed money to look after
thousands of refugees displaced by fighting between Sri Lankan
troops and Tiger rebels in the island's embattled regions.


Relief workers also raised concerns for the safety of civilians
in the eastern district of Batticaloa where over 40,000 people
have been displaced in the past week, the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said.


"The influx of tens and thousands of civilians has increased the
total number of internally displaced persons in conflict-affected
Batticaloa district from 88,000 to over 130,000," the UN agency
said in a statement.


The aid agency was running out of money as an appeal for 66.2
million dollars sent out in January attracted only 2.7 million
dollars, the statement said.


"So far, we have got only four percent of our funding
requirement," Orla Clinton, a UN spokeswomen, said.


"And with the latest influx of refugees we need more money now --
much more than 66 million dollars we anticipated a few months
back," she added.


"At the moment it's costing us (the UN) a million dollars a week
to provide humanitarian assistance to the new 40,000 refugees who
have been displaced."


"The United Nations has almost no funds to meet even the most
basic requirements" of the displaced people, the statement said.


"The most urgent need at the moment is food with the World Food
Programme reporting that they do not have the additional in-
country stocks for this latest influx," it said.


The appeal comes a day after Sri Lankan warplanes staged air
strikes against suspected rebel positions in the Batticaloa
district.


Sri Lankan troops have launched a fresh offensive to drive deeper
into a Tiger stronghold known as the Thoppigala jungle which
stretches from Batticaloa district to neighbouring Ampara
district.


Tamil Tiger rebels have been waging a more than three-decade
bloody campaign for an independent homeland for the Tamil
minority in the Sinhalese-minority nation with the loss of
thousands of lives.

