

A clouded leopard found in the rainforests of Indonesia's islands
of Borneo and Sumatra is a new species of big cat, conservation
group WWF said Thursday.


The cat, covered in small cloud markings containing many spots,
was thought to be the same species as a mainland Southeast Asian
leopard, but tests have shown otherwise.


"Genetic research results clearly indicate that the clouded
leopards of Borneo should be considered a separate species,"
Stephen O'Brien, from the US National Cancer Institute, was
quoted as saying in a WWF statement.


The difference between the cats was as great as the difference
between lions, tigers and jaguars, the researchers said.


"The moment we started comparing the skins of the mainland
clouded leopard and the leopard found on Borneo, it was clear we
were comparing two different species," said Andrew Kitchener, a
scientist from National Museums Scotland.


"It's incredible no-one has ever noticed these differences," he
was quoted as saying in WWF's statement.


The mainland leopard had larger clouds with fewer spots and
lacked the new species' greyer fur and double dorsal stripe, the
statement said.


The leopard is Borneo's top predator and feeds on monkeys, deer
and pigs, though it sometimes eats birds and monitor lizards.


Some 5,000 to 11,000 cats from the newly declared species are
thought to live on Borneo, while the number on Sumatra is
estimated to be 3,000 to 7,000.


"For over a hundred years we have been looking at this animal and
never realised it was unique," said senior WWF official Stuart
Chapman.


The conservation group said the clouded leopard's last great
forest home was the "Heart of Borneo," a mountainous region of 22
million hectares (54 million acres) -- about five times the size
of Switzerland -- in the island's centre.


The main threat to the cat stems from the destruction of its
habitat, with Borneo's rainforests under threat from
unsustainable logging, forest fires and conversion to
plantations, the group said.


Since 1996, deforestation across Indonesia has increased to an
average of two million hectares a year.


The forests are home to 13 primate species -- including
endangered orangutans -- more than 350 bird species, 150 reptiles
and amphibians and about 15,000 species of plants.


Scientists continue to make discoveries in the forests -- more
than 50 species were found last year alone.

