

An armed group in southern Nigeria released two Italians,
employees of the Italian oil company Agip, early Thursday, but
vowed to abduct other oil workers.


"They were handed over to the custody of Massimo Alberizzi, an
Italian journalist visiting in the Niger Delta, who in turn
handed these individuals over to officials of Saipem, a
subsidiary of Agip," the Movement for the Emancipation for the
Niger Delta (MEND) said in an e-mail to AFP.


Cosma Russo and Franco Arena, who were kidnapped by MEND on
December 7, were due to arrive back in Rome Thursday evening, the
Italian foreign ministry said.


Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema thanked the Nigerian authorities
in a statement "for their constructive attitude and their
cooperation shown throughout their detention."


He also thanked the Italian military's secret service.


ENI, the company that owns Agip, said in a statement that no
ransom had been paid.


Since the start of 2006, when kidnapping increased sharply in
southern Nigeria's oil-producing region, well over 100 foreigners
have been seized there. Most have been linked to the oil
industry, and most have been released unharmed within a few
weeks.


MEND, which has often claimed responsibility for the abductions,
says it wants a fairer distribution of Nigeria's oil wealth.


With the release of Russo, 55, and Arena, 54, only one foreigner,
Gerard Laporal, a French national and a subcontractor for Total
SA of France, remains in captivity in the delta. A few weeks ago,
more than 30 foreign hostages were being held.


MEND vowed to seize other hostages to "replace" Russo and Arena
and to increase its attacks on the oil industry and on the
government of President Olusegun Obasanjo, who will step down at
the end of May.


The group threatened to seize future hostages from "oil
installations thought to be secure" to "dispel the false sense of
well being gradually building up in the oil industry." It also
threatened to use car bombs.


The MEND statement challenged assurances given by Obasanjo when
he met Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi in Rome on Monday.


Obasanjo said Nigeria's government was "fully prepared and able"
to provide adequate security for oil workers and installations in
the volatile Niger Delta.


Russo and Arena were abducted along with a third Italian, Roberto
Dieghi, and Lebanese national Imad Saliba.


Dieghi was freed in mid-January, while Saliba escaped last month.


After Saliba's escape, MEND had threatened to hold Russo and
Arena for "a year or more".


The separatist group, the most high-profile among a number of
armed groups operating in the Niger Delta, said the release came
"in response to pleas from comrades who have assisted the cause
.. over the years." It added that none of its demands had been
met.


The group has demanded the release of separatist leader Mujahid
Dokubo-Asari, who faces charges of treason, and a former governor
of Bayelsa State, Dieprepe Alamieyeseigha, currently in prison
for corruption.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, around 4.4 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros) last
year, according to official sources.

