

British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday that it was a
"tragedy" that there had been so many deaths in Iraq but insisted
that the US-led coalition was doing the right thing.


He refused to apologize for the 2003 war, saying he had no
regrets backing US President George W. Bush over the invasion of
Iraq.


"The British soldiers, the American soldiers have done
extraordinary work in Iraq, they've made very great sacrifices,"
he said in a live television interview with Sky News.


"It's a tragedy that so many have lost their lives, but they have
not lost their lives because we have been trying to do the wrong
thing in Iraq."


But he insisted he did not regret the strength of his alliance
with Bush, which has proved hugely unpopular with both the
British public and some of his closest allies in government.


"I do not either regret the strength of our alliance with US or
standing by the US president and the American people in the
aftermath of September 11 and I'm never going to do that," he
said.


Asked whether the lives of ordinary people were now worse than
under executed dictator Saddam Hussein, he said: "It's been
extremely tough, very challenging, it's a very difficult
situation."


But Blair blamed terrorists and sectarian elements for the
deaths, saying the people of Iraq had voted for a democratic
government.


"We're not making it worse, they're making it worse," he said.


"Until the Western world stops apologising for its values.. we're
never going to defeat this."


Blair also denied that the first phase of the invasion had not
been properly planned.


A total of 133 British soldiers have been killed in Iraq since
2003, when Britain strongly backed the US-led invasion.


And some 3,200 American soldiers, sailors and marines have
perished in Iraq.


Last month, Blair said that the number of British troops in Iraq
would be cut by 1,600 to about 5,500 in the next couple of months
as the Iraqi authorities assume more control in the British
sector.


Britain currently has about 7,100 troops in and around Basra.
After the pull- out, some forces will stay in the area into 2008
to help Iraqi forces in a support role.

