

International sanctions against regimes such as Zimbabwe should
be carefully tailored so as not to hurt ordinary people, new UN
Deputy Secretary General Asha-Rose Migiro said Thursday.


"Sanctions have to be weighed carefully because of the experience
we have had in the past where sanctions have had
counterproductive effects against innocent citizens of a
particular country," she told reporters in response to a question
on Zimbabwe.


The Tanzanian diplomat stressed the importance of standing by
"the principles of human rights, dignity and freedom of
expression".


Her comments came the day after the US State Department said that
Washington was considering fresh sanctions against the Zimbabwean
government following the arrests and beatings of opposition
leaders by the regime of President Robert Mugabe.


Zimbabwe police broke up an opposition rally on Sunday, arresting
dozens of politicians and severely beating several, including
Morgan Tsvangirai, head of the main opposition Movement for
Democratic Change.


In Brussels, Michel forcefully condemned "the attitude of the
Zimbabwe authorities who act in defiance of all human rights
laws, elementary democratic rules and human rights".


However, he also stressed that he was "never in favour of
sanctions which penalise the population in some way".


"If it's a question of sanctions that affect the leaders and not
the people, then so be it, but even in that case I'm not sure
that they work," he added.


"But if the sanctions directly or indirectly hit the
population... I can't accept it."


Last month the European Union extended its sanctions against
Zimbabwe until February 2008, including an arms embargo and a
travel ban on Mugabe.


The European Union slapped sanctions on the Zimbabwean leader and
his coterie after the long-serving ruler won elections in 2002
which the opposition insists were rigged.


The travel ban and also an assets freeze extend to anyone who has
"taken part in activities which seriously endangered democracy,
respect for human rights and the rule of law in Zimbabwe".


Those measures cover some 130 people, including Mugabe, his
current and former cabinets and leaders of his ruling Zanu-PF
party.


The travel ban on Mugabe has caused problems over the years,
notably with regard to EU-Africa summits.


The second such summit -- the first was held in April 2000 in
Cairo -- was supposed to take place in April 2003.


That meeting was delayed indefinitely amid disagreement between
African and European countries -- notably former colonial power
Britain -- over the Mugabe ban.

