

European Information and Media Commissioner Viviane Reding said
on Thursday she expected a deal on trimming the high cost of
using mobile phones abroad by the end of June.


"I am very confident that we can obtain an ambitious agreement so
that in early June the (European) Council can take a decision and
the Parliament in May so that both institutions could reach an
agreement before summer," she said.


"Every effort should be made to successfully conclude the
legislative process on the reduction of roaming tariffs by the
end of the first half of 2007."


Reding was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the world's
biggest high- tech fair, the CeBIT, ahead of an informal meeting
here of EU telecoms ministers on a number of topics including so-
called "roaming" charges.


The gathering will be the last before a formal ministers' meeting
in Brussels June 6 and 7.


The European Parliament will vote in May on the issue, amid
serious strain between telecommunications firms and the European
Commission.


The Commission put forward proposals in July for bringing down
roaming rates, which remain far higher than call made
domestically in the EU.


Frustrated that operators had paid little heed to calls for lower
roaming fees, the Commission suggested fixing the wholesale
roaming rates that mobile phone companies charge each other.


With evidence that prices for roaming calls can run up to six
times those of local mobile phone calls, it also proposed to cap
the retail rates that companies can impose, as well as the cost
of calls received abroad.


European deputies have until March 9 to put forward amendments to
the existing bill.


Economy Minister Michael Glos of Germany, which holds the six-
month rotating presidency of the EU, on Wednesday renewed his
call for Europe-wide regulation on roaming fees, saying the
current cost of using a cell phone abroad is "much too high."


"Europe-wide regulation that will cut costs for citizens on a
lasting basis is urgently needed," Glos said in a statement
released ahead of the opening of the CeBIT.


"The aim of the regulation will be to safeguard customers against
excessive roaming fees," he said. "At the informal meeting on
Thursday, I will do everything I can so that we draw up and agree
on a common position."


Thursday's meeting was aimed at "advancing debate for further
discussion," Glos said, adding that key details, such as price
levels and regulation, had yet to be worked out.


Germany has set the target of getting a deal under its EU
presidency, running until the end of June, so holidaymakers can
enjoy cheaper rates while abroad next summer.

