

President Pervez Musharraf said Thursday that it was up to
Pakistan's judiciary to resolve a snowballing controversy over
his attempt to sack the country's top judge.


Lawyers and opposition groups staged violent protests this week
after military ruler Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry last Friday on charges of misconduct and abuse
of power.


Chaudhry appeared before Pakistan's Supreme Judicial Council on
Tuesday -- where he alleged that his dismissal was
unconstitutional -- and the panel is due to hear his case again
on Friday amid tight security.


"This is a constitutional and judicial matter," the official
Associated Press of Pakistan news agency quoted General Musharraf
as telling a large public gathering in the central city of
Gujranwala.


"The decision would be constitutional and to be taken by the
judiciary itself... whatever decision it (the Supreme Judicial
Council) takes would be acceptable to me".


Musharraf said he believed the council would "deliver justice"
but said he regretted the fact that the issue was "being
politicised and used for political point-scoring through the
lawyers' community."


"Once the decision is taken by the SJC, I would address the
nation on TV and take them into confidence about the issue," he
added.


Visiting US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central
Asian Affairs Richard Boucher said Thursday that the issue was
"sensitive" and needed to be handled carefully.


"We understand the sensitivity of actions involving the
judiciary," he told a news conference at the US embassy in
Islamabad after holding talks with Musharraf, a key ally in the
US-led "war on terror".


"It's a sensitive matter and obviously needs to be handled
carefully, but it's something that needs to be handled by the
Pakistanis in their own way," he added.


Pakistan's acting chief Javed Iqbal meanwhile has summoned the
Islamabad police chief and other officers for allegedly
"manhandling" Chaudhry, a Supreme Court spokesman said Thursday.


Television footage showed police officers apparently restraining
Chaudhry when he tried to walk to the Supreme Court on Tuesday.
He later made his way by car to the court.


"The inspector general, deputy inspector general, senior
superintendent police and deputy superintendent of police will
appear before the Supreme Court on March 19 to explain their
position," the spokesman said.


Police in pre-dawn raids Thursday detained some two dozen
political workers in the eastern city of Lahore, ahead of a
protest planned by the opposition.


"We have detained 24 individuals after intelligence reports that
they posed a threat to the peace and security in the city," a
senior Lahore police officer told AFP.


Major political parties, including those of former prime
ministers Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif as well as an alliance
of six Islamic parties, have joined hands to stage rallies after
Friday prayers.


"It is our right to protest the suspension and subsequent
manhandling of the chief justice and we will go ahead with our
protest despite police threats," Ameerul Azeem, a spokesman for
the Islamic alliance, told AFP.


More than 20 lawyers were injured on Monday when police used
batons to break up their rally in Lahore.

