

East Timor's Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta Thursday urged a
fugitive rebel leader to surrender to Australian troops, saying
he cannot muster enough support to disrupt upcoming presidential
polls.


"The position is very clear to him ... surrender the weapons and
surrender himself to justice," Ramos-Horta said of Major Alfredo
Reinado, who is on the run after eluding an attack on his base by
Australian troops.


The rebel has been a persistent problem for the government of
impoverished East Timor, which will soon hold its first
presidential election since independence from Indonesia in 1999.


The prime minister said the government was not negotiating with
Reinado and played down fears the fugitive could destabilise the
April 9 poll, which Ramos- Horta is favourite to win.


"I do not believe that Reinado and his men want to disturb the
election," the premier said.


"I do not believe that he has the ability to generate the large
support to ... disturb the election in any area of the country."


Ramos-Horta vowed Reinado, who broke out of jail last year, would
be respected and protected if he surrendered.


The rebel has ruled out surrendering to Australian troops, saying
he is only prepared to negotiate with the government if the
military operation against him is halted.


The renegade soldier has been criticised for his part in unrest
in May that killed at least 37 people, displaced 150,000 and led
to the deployment of Australian-led international peacekeepers.


East Timor's President Xanana Gusmao gave the international force
the green light to capture Reinado after accusing him of stealing
weapons last month.


Australian troops then stormed his mountain base in Same, 50
kilometres (30 miles) south of the capital, Dili, but Reinado
escaped and has eluded a subsequent manhunt.


The offensive triggered unrest in the capital and elsewhere,
prompting the president to warn in a televised address of a
security crackdown.


Brigadier Mal Rerden, the Australian who heads the international
force in East Timor, has said he is confident his troops will
track down and apprehend the renegade.


Ramos-Horta was the exiled spokesman of the East Timorese
resistance movement during the country's occupation by Indonesia
from 1975 to 1999.


The 57-year-old shared the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts
at bringing peace to the country. He is thought likely to become
president because of his domestic popularity and international
standing.

