

Dozens of regular soldiers accompanied by UN peacekeeping troops
took up guard duties Thursday at the residences of two former
rebel leaders in the capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo.


The deployment of DRC Armed Forces (FARDC) troops and armoured
vehicles of the UN mission to the Congo (MONUC) to provide
security for Jean-Pierre Bemba and Azarias Ruberwa, whose rebel
movements battled Kinshasa until 2003.


Both men subsequently became vice-presidents during a post-war
transition to democratic rule overseen by the United Nations and
have since been reluctant to give up their own personal guard
details.


Since Bemba's soldiers were involved in bloodshed in the capital
three times last year at the height of the transition process,
some residents of the Gombe district where he and Ruberwa live
said they feared further trouble.


The armed forces general staff ordered at the start of the month
that troops still serving the two leaders should be in barracks
by March 15. A presidential decree has granted the former vice-
presidents of the transitional regime a guard of 12 police
officers.


Before Bemba last November conceded defeat to the incumbent
Joseph Kabila in a presidential election and vowed to lead
parliamentary opposition, his troops clashed with Kabila's
forces, supporters and police.


In one street battle after Kabila supporters won a majority in
parliament and during the run-up to the vast country's first
fully democratic presidential polls since independence in 1960 at
least 23 people were killed last August.


"I hope they won't start fighting again," a florist named Joseph
told AFP in the Gombe district, where a number of shops stayed
closed, like the privately run French school there.


Dozens of Bemba's troops armed with assault rifles were either on
patrol near his residence or sitting around on chairs outside, a
few metres (yards) from the regular army patrols.


Western military sources estimate that 250 soldiers of Bemba's
Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC) form his guard, while Ruberwa
has 150, but these figures fail to include forces no longer
deployed in Kinshasa.


MONUC's military spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Didier Rancher,
said the UN mission had deployed a few of its more than 17,000
personnel in the country "as a dissuasive measure, but we're not
worried."


"Discussions are in hand to settle the political problem,"
Rancher said.


One of Bemba's aides, Thomas Luhaka, said the MLC wanted further
talks and was "ready for a compromise", but this required more
effort from Kabila and the armed forces.


"Our biggest worry is there'll be a clash between soldiers on the
street," Luhaka said. "They've got strict orders to stay calm,
but you can never rule out some individual stepping out of line."


"There was an agreement on October 29 between the second-round
presidential candidates that guaranteed a minimum of security to
the loser. Mr Bemba's safety cannot be guaranteed by 12
policemen. We are ready for a compromise, but the other side has
to make an effort."


During the last devastating conflict to wrack the DRC from 1998
to 2003, when the armies of more than half a dozen countries
fought a regional war on its soil, the RDC rebellion was launched
from the east and Bemba's MLC was particularly active in the
north and northeast.

