

Italy said on Thursday it would wait for a ruling by the
country's constitutional court before requesting the extradition
of 26 CIA agents accused of abducting an Egyptian imam off the
streets of Milan in 2003.


Justice Minister Clemente Mastella, who is the only person
authorised to transmit the extradition request to Washington,
told the senate that "an additional delay was necessary" before
the constitutional court could issue a ruling in the case.


Italian prosecutors last month ordered 26 Americans to stand
trial for kidnapping Osama Mustafa Hassan, better known as Abu
Omar, on a Milan street on February 17, 2003 and taking him to a
high-security prison outside Cairo, where he claims he was
tortured.


The Italian government appealed the decision to the
constitutional court, claiming the Milan prosecutors office in
charge of the case had violated state secrets by taking advantage
of telephone taps used by Italy's secret service SISMI, which is
also thought to have been implicated in the abduction.


The court is expected to determine on April 18 whether or not to
accept the government appeal, while its final ruling in the case
is expected in the second half of the year.


Washington has already stated that it is not prepared to
extradite the CIA agents.


"If we got an extradition request from Italy, we would not
extradite US officials to Italy," US State Department legal
advisor John Bellinger said late last month.


The case is the biggest against US intelligence agents staged in
an allied country and threatens embarrassing new revelations over
the CIA practice of seizing terror suspects in one country and
taking them to another.


The tactic, known as extraordinary rendition,  has been among the
most controversial used in the US "war on terror" declared after
the September 11, 2001 attacks.


The 26 CIA agents, along with seven Italians, including SISMI
chief Nicolo Pollari, are scheduled to receive their verdicts in
an Italian court on June 8. The Americans will be sentenced in
absentia.

