

The detective probing alleged corruption over the funding of
British political parties has refused to set a deadline for the
completion of his investigation, according to a letter released
Thursday.


Speculation has mounted in recent weeks that Scotland Yard's
Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Yates may be about to hand
over a file of evidence to prosecutors in the "cash for honours"
affair.


But he said in a letter to members of the House of Commons Public
Administration Committee: "As experience now shows, it is unwise
to set myself any deadline to complete the investigation.


"To do so would be unrealistic in view of the fact that many
matters, not least of which is further evidence coming to light,
are out of my control."


The detective -- or "Yates of the Yard" as he has been dubbed in
the press -- began his investigation nearly 12 months ago and
said last year he expected to end the investigation by January.


The probe was launched after complaints that parties had
illegally offered seats in the unelected House of Lords to
financial backers.


Four people have been arrested, including two of Prime Minister
Tony Blair's closest aides, while the British leader himself has
been questioned twice as a witness. His entire cabinet have also
been quizzed.


Earlier this month, the government's top law adviser, Attorney
General Lord Peter Goldsmith, obtained an injunction against the
BBC to prevent them broadcasting an item on the investigation.


That led to rumours a new arrest -- or even a charge -- was
imminent.


But Yates's letter appeared to scotch reports that the focus of
the inquiry had shifted from potential breaches of laws barring
the sale of honours or non- declaration of substantial loans to
whether there was a cover-up.


Senior Blair aide Ruth Turner was arrested on suspicion of
perverting the course of justice while Labour Party chief
fundraiser Lord Michael Levy was held on suspicion of conspiring
to do the same.


Yates, though, said the honours and loans allegations remained
"the central focus of our enquiries".


The letter shows Yates is unhappy at the constant press coverage,
describing much of it as "inaccurate" and "far from helpful".


He promised to conclude his enquiries as soon as possible, but
said: "There are very proper and statutory methods of resolving
these issues and in fairness to all parties, these matters cannot
and must not be rushed."

