

Immigrant labour now accounts for almost 11 percent of Ireland's
workforce but the indications are that the inflow may have
peaked, according to an employment survey Thursday.


In its latest quarterly report, state training and employment
agency FAS said immigrants accounted for over half the increase
in jobs in Ireland last year.


By the end of 2006, employment had grown by 85,500 to 2.07
million and the unemployment rate was down to 4.1 percent -- the
lowest for five years, with the number of unemployed falling to
88,700.


"The ability of the labour market to absorb the large inflow of
migrant workers bears testimony both to the strength of the
labour market and the employability of the migrants," the report
said.


Early employment data showed migration flows from the 10
countries that joined the EU in January 2004 may have peaked but
the numbers of Romanians and Bulgarians coming to Ireland could
be "significant", it added.


"Between them, Romania and Bulgaria have accounted for 5,500
(employment) numbers since joining the European Union, with the
vast majority of these being issued to Romanian citizens.


"The absorption of EU2 (Romanian and Bulgarian) citizens into the
labour market is likely to be more problematic than it has been
for EU10 migrants, given the conditionality surrounding their
employment."


Immigrants from Romania and Bulgaria can only work as self-
employed in Ireland.


The report expects that net-inward migration will be of the order
of 60,000 this year, down from 74,000 in 2006.


"However, this represents a tentative estimate as migration flows
are notoriously difficult to predict.


"The drop off in the rate of inward migration may not materialise
if EU10 immigration is replaced by inward flows from Romania and
to a lesser extent Bulgaria," the report says.


FAS predicted the number of jobs in Ireland to grow by 75,000, or
two percent, in 2007, with the biggest growth in the services
sector. Immigrants are also expected to swell the construction
sector.

