

The Swiss central bank said on Thursday that it was raising its
key Libor interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point to a
range between 1.75 percent and 2.75 percent.


The Swiss National Bank said in a statement that its move was
aimed at curbing stronger-than-expected inflation from the middle
of this year.


"Once the dampening effect on inflation emanating from the
decline in oil prices in the second half of 2006 has waned, we
will witness an increase in annual inflation starting in the
middle of 2007," the bank said in a statement.


This rise will be more than the bank expected at its last
assessment in December, due mainly to the weakening of the Swiss
franc since then, which has neutralised the impact of the
previous rate hike, the SNB noted.


"By lifting the target range, the National Bank is ensuring that
inflation will remain within the range defined as price stability
also in the longer term," it said.


The bank also said its analysis of the international economic
environment has not changed much since its last assessment.


The US economy is set to expand close to its potential growth
rate in 2007, while Europe is also seen performing favourably,
the SNB forecast.


Switzerland's own economic performance is currently in "excellent
shape," with gross domestic product up 1.8 in the fourth quarter
on an annual basis.


"Switzerland's economy is in excellent shape. As expected, it
continues to perform positively. This is having a favourable
effect on the labour market," the bank said.


"Most demand components can again be expected to shore up
economic growth in the next few quarters. The upbeat consumer
sentiment and the income trend will push up household spending,"
it added.


It expects economic developments to be "broad-based and balanced"
over the course of 2007, with GDP growing by around 2 percent.


Price pressure will ease somewhat due to strong competition from
former Soviet bloc countries and Asian emerging markets, as well
as an influx of foreign labour into the Swiss market, the bank
added.

