

Asian stock markets closed higher Thursday, recovering some lost
ground as a bounce on Wall Street helped steady nerves after
another roller-coaster ride driven by concerns over the US
economic outlook, dealers said.


They said trade was cautious and the gains not enough to fully
repair the damage caused Wednesday a sharp increase in US
mortgage defaults, especially in the riskier sub-prime segment
where weaker borrowers have run into repayment difficulties.


US stocks opened lower but then turned firmer as bargain hunters
drove a gain of 0.48 percent which allowed the Asian markets some
respite.


Dealers said views on the possible fallout from the slowing US
housing market are varied, with some confident it can be
contained easily while others suspect the worst and think there
will be more bad news.


For the pessimists, the fact that global banking giant HSBC
recently had to make an unexpectedly large provision to cover its
exposure to the US sub-prime mortgage market points to the
dangers involved.


For the optimists, the provisions and continued profit growth at
HSBC only confirm that strong management can handle the problem.


On the day, Tokyo rose 1.10 percent after a fall Wednesday of
2.92 percent while Sydney did better, rising 1.93 percent after a
drop of 2.10 percent, with that pattern or partial recovery
largely repeated across the region.


TOKYO: Japanese share prices closed up 1.10 percent as investors
reacted with relief to an overnight rally on Wall Street that
helped to steady jittery global markets, dealers said.


They said that confidence also received a boost from the yen's
pullback which should help to underpin exporter earnings.


The Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark Nikkei-225 index of leading
shares gained 183.50 points to 16,860.39, a day after tumbling
2.92 percent in tandem with other global markets.


The TOPIX index of all issues on the Tokyo Stock Exchange's first
section rose 19.24 points or 1.15 percent to 1,694.18.


Gainers beat decliners 1,335 to 302, with 94 stocks flat.


Volume was 2.3 billion shares, down from 2.4 billion on
Wednesday.


"The rebound in Tokyo mirrored the rally in US stocks and (was
helped by) the yen -- which was back to the 117 level against the
US dollar," said SMBC Friend Securities chief strategist Fumiyuki
Nakanishi.


"The negative effect on the market caused by wariness about US
sub-prime mortgage lending has subsided for the moment but it
needs to be watched further," Nakanishi added.


Recent figures have shown that the number of bad mortgage loans
in the United States is rising and causing deep financial
troubles for firms that lent to borrowers with patchy credit
histories.


Nakanishi said he expected the market to continue to be affected
by external factors such as the movements of the yen, new US
economic data and next week's meeting of the US Federal Reserve.


"But on the domestic front, the market considers the progress of
Japanese corporate earnings to be steady," he added.


HONG KONG: Hong Kong share prices closed 0.70 percent higher as
blue chip China Mobile helped the market stage a rebound on
expectations that it will announce strong 2006 results next week,
dealers said.


They said overall sentiment was supported by Wall Street's
moderate recovery overnight and strong gains on the Tokyo bourse
after sharp sell-offs earlier this week.


The Hang Seng Index rose 132.51 points at 18,969.44, off a low of
18,932.46 and a high of 19,054.94, having lost 2.57 percent
Wednesday. Turnover was a modest 35.01 billion dollars (4.5
billion US).


"Buying interest in China Mobile, some other blue chips,
defensive H-shares and some second-liners enabled the market to
recover from (Wednesday's) sharp fall," said Y K Chan, strategist
at Phillip Asset Management.


He said China Mobile's gains were driven by hopes that the
mainland telecoms firm will report strong 2006 results next week.


Chan said that despite Thursday's rebound, "many investors remain
cautious and this was reflected in the relatively low turnover
compared to the previous days."


He said investors remain wary of the problems in the US sub-prime
mortgage market and its possible repercussions, and are therefore
unlikely to take strong positions in the near term.


China Mobile closed up 1.50 dollars at 68.65 dollars. The company
will announce its 2006 results next Wednesday.


SEOUL: South Korean share prices closed 1.39 percent higher,
supported by a solid regional response to overnight gains on Wall
Street, dealers said.


They said, however, that sentiment remains cautious after the two
rounds of turmoil seen so far this month sparked largely by
concerns about the US economic outlook.


Investors will be watching closely to see if there is any further
fallout from the problems in the US mortgage market which have
begun to surface as sub-prime, or more risky borrowers, face
increasing difficulty in repaying loans.


The KOSPI index was up 19.56 points at 1,426.93, after trading
between 1,414.98 and 1,429.38, recovering some of the ground lost
Wednesday when the market tumbled 2.0 percent.


Volume was 250 million shares worth 2.6 trillion won (2.76
billion dollars). Rises outnumbered falls by 565 to 183.


Institutions were net buyers of shares worth 90.9 billion won
while foreign and retail investors were net sellers of 162.1
billion won and 21.8 billion won.


"The market made a technical rebound today after steep losses
(Wednesday), with strong program buying boosting most sectors,"
said Seoul Securities analyst Ji Ki-Ho.


He said he does not expect any big ripple effect from the US
mortgage market problems to spread here as the South Korean
government has already taken measures to tighten up on mortgage
lending.


TAIPEI: Taiwan share prices closed 1.66 percent higher in active
trade, in line with the rebound in regional markets after Wall
Street steadied to finish with moderate gains, dealers said.


They said investors were relieved that Wall Street managed a
better finish despite early losses but remained cautious after
the severe turbulence seen in global equity markets so far this
month.


The weighted index rose 125.69 points at 7,695.69, after trading
between 7,631.67 and 7,708.98, on turnover of 126.26 billion
dollars (3.83 billion US).


Risers led decliners 982 to 169, with 157 stocks unchanged.


The heavily weighted electronics sector was up 1.70 percent and
financials rose 1.54 percent.


"After showing some resilience (Wednesday), the Taipei bourse
managed a rebound that is at least comparable to those in Tokyo
and Seoul," said SinoPac Securities assistant vice president
Alvin Teng.


Despite the gains, however, the local market would be susceptible
to any further volatility on Wall Street going forward, he said.


An immediate concern among local investors is the risk of an
escalation of the current defaults faced by US sub-prime mortgage
lenders into a broader problem for the US economy, he said.


On a positive note, Teng added that if a soft landing is possible
for the US housing market, the Taipei bourse might emerge as a
major beneficiary as it had been a laggard throughout 2006.


SHANGHAI: Chinese share prices closed 1.56 percent higher on the
back of fresh fund inflows and a rebound on Wall Street, with
property developers, power generators and automakers in favor,
dealers said.


They said as overseas markets settled down after heavy losses
Wednesday, investors were free to concentrate on local leads,
especially the prospect of more money coming into stocks as the
China story continues to attract.


A series of strong data this week has sparked concerns the
authorities may try once again to cool the economy down but
China's growth credentials remain intact and this will bolster
sentiment.


Volumes were again very heavy.


The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index, which covers both A- and
B-shares, rose 45.36 points to 2,951.70 on turnover of 86.64
billion yuan (11.18 billion US dollars). The index lost 1.97
percent Wednesday.


The Shanghai A-share Index was up 47.66 points or 1.56 percent to
3,101.24 on turnover of 86.20 billion yuan and the Shenzhen
A-share Index added 14.48 points or 1.80 percent at 820.66, a new
all time high, on turnover of 47.39 billion yuan.


"A rebound in overseas markets helped support stocks here and
fresh funds are still entering the market with over 70 billion
yuan worth of stock investment fund products expected to be
issued over March according to media reports," said Cai Junyi, an
analyst at Shanghai Securities.


Dealers said that if the government were to try again to slow the
economy, which grew at a breakneck 10.7 percent last year, there
would most be some consolidation but the larger concern would be
events overseas after two bouts of global markets turmoil so far
this month.


"The market is likely to see more corrections due to fluctuations
in global stock markets and lingering concerns over possible
credit-tightening measures," Cao Yan, an analyst at Soochow
Securities said.


SYDNEY: Australian share prices rebounded 1.93 percent, with
bargain hunters encouraged by an overnight rise on Wall Street,
dealers said.


They said a strong local employment report also helped to bolster
sentiment after the recent roller-coaster ride while the recent
losses have at the same time taken some of the froth out of the
market.


The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 closed up 111.1 points at 5,853.0
while the broader All Ordinaries index climbed 104.5 points to
5,831.8, recovering most of the ground lost Wednesday.


Turnover was 1.85 billion shares worth 8.68 billion dollars (6.8
billion US), with rises outnumbering falls 770 to 401 and 334
stocks unchanged.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
bargain hunters were happy to snap up stocks after the mid-week
slide.


"I think we've seen what I would say is some healthy profit-
taking in the last couple of days. The sellers were happy to take
their profits and the buyers were happy to come back in and buy
at prices offered," Smith said.


CommSec equities economist Martin Arnold said the unemployment
report was a vote of confidence in the growth prospects for the
Australian economy.


"With a strong corporate sector driving growth, jobs are out
there to be filled," Arnold said, adding that he expects the
central bank will likely still leave interest rates on hold.


Smith said Qantas was again in focus with investors happy to pick
up stock below the 5.45 dollars a share being offered by a
Macquarie Bank-led consortium even though there are doubts that
the bid will succeed.


"In my opinion it won't go through -- the profit guidance today
was quite positive and the outlook for 2008 was also promising,"
he said.


Qantas shares ended up 0.08 dollars at 5.12 dollars.


SINGAPORE: Singapore share prices closed 1.36 percent higher with
market sentiment lifted by Wall Street's rebound, dealers said.


The main Straits Times Index added 41.39 points at 3,094.6
following Wednesday's heavy losses of 3.35 percent. Volume was
1.24 billion shares worth 1.43 billion dollars (941 million US).
Gains led declines 494 to 179, with 706 stocks unchanged.


"This is a phase of the correction and the market is finding a
base against which to continue," a dealer with a local brokerage
said.


Other dealers however believed the market remained vulnerable in
light of continued concerns of a possible US economic slowdown
which will have repercussions on the rest of the world.


"Nervousness would be the best way to describe sentiment in
global equity markets right now and as often is the case, it's
focusing on the US economy," said Jan Lambregts, head of regional
research at Dutch lender Rabobank.


"Everyone's aware of the risks of a growth slowdown in the US
economy but on top of that, have been the risks of a broader US
mortgage market crisis," he said.


KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian share prices closed 1.19 percent higher
on a technical rebound in line with regional gains after Wall
Street's recovery overnight, dealers said.


At the same time, investors remained cautious after the recent
turbulence on global markets, they said.


The Kuala Lumpur Composite Index gained 13.93 points to 1,180.31.
Volume was 1.11 billion shares worth 1.48 billion ringgit (422.8
million dollars) while gainers led losers 660 to 187, with 240
stocks unchanged.


At the close, the ringgit was quoted at 3.5115/5150 to the
dollar.


"The market rebounded on Wall Street's recovery but investors are
still cautious, as evidenced by the relatively low volume," said
Cheah King Yoong, head of research at SJ Securities.


Cheah said the market may perform much better next week on
expectations of favourable announcements by the government during
a major investment conference for institutional investors.


BANGKOK: Thai share prices closed 0.55 percent higher Thursday,
led by regional gains after Wall Street staged a rebound from a
sell-off sparked by worries over a slowing US economy, dealers
said.


But they said investors sold export-linked shares, such as
electronics, as the Thai baht hit a new nine-year high against
the dollar on massive dollar-selling by local exporters as the
market bet remaining capital controls would be lifted.


The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) composite index rose 3.69
points to 674.31 while the blue-chip SET 50 index added 2.64
points to 472.21.


Gainers outnumbered losers 215 to 91, with 134 stocks unchanged
on turnover of 2.1 billion shares worth 8.6 billion baht (246
million dollars).


"The increase was in line with a regional rebound as investors
chased gains in energy and banking shares," said Kanang
Duangmanee, a market analyst at Kasikorn Research Center.


However, the upturn was modest due to selling of export-linked
stocks in the face of the strong baht, which makes Thai exporters
less competitive in overseas markets and slashes the value of
firms' repatriated profits. Exports are the driving force of the
Thai economy.


Apart from dollar-selling by exporters, the baht kept rising on
ongoing speculation that the army-backed government would lift
controversial currency rules introduced in December in an effort
to halt the unit's advance.


Bank of Thailand governor Tarisa Watanagase insisted Thursday the
measures, which required 30 percent of all incoming investment to
be held by financial institutions for up to one year, would stay
for a while.


JAKARTA: Indonesian share prices closed 0.8 percent higher after
a rebound on Wall Street overnight sparked fresh support
following an earlier sharp sell-off, dealers said.


They noted that index heavyweight Telkom led the rally as it
tracked overnight gains in its New York-listed shares.


The Jakarta Stock Exchange composite index was up 14.077 points
at 1,776.361 on volume of 1.8 billion shares worth 1.9 trillion
rupiah (205.90 million dollars). The market lost 1.95 percent
Wednesday.


Gainers led losers 98 to 53, with 64 stocks unchanged.


"Many stocks have begun to rebound, though they have yet to fully
recover from Wednesday's losses," said Hendrik, an analyst with
Batavia Prosperindo Asset Management.


"I guess we may have to wait until more companies announce their
2006 results to see a stronger rally," he added.


He said apart from Telkom, support for the main index came from
mining stocks, especially nickel miner Inco and Antam, supported
by higher metals prices.


MANILA: Philippine share prices closed 1.00 percent lower,
extending losses in cautious trade as investors failed to be
convinced by the overnight rebound on Wall Street, dealers said.


Investors unloaded blue chips, including Philippine Long Distance
Telephone (PLDT) to buy into smaller capitalized stocks, they
said.


The composite index fell 30.67 points to 3,043.61 after trading
between 3,032.74 and 3,081.45.  Gains led declines 48 to 43, with
68 stocks unchanged.


Turnover dropped to 2.7 billion shares worth 2.4 billion pesos
(50 million dollars) from 5.2 billion shares worth 4.3 billion
pesos on Wednesday.


Wall Street finished with modest gains overnight after falling as
much as 136 points in another volatile session dominated by
worries over sub-prime mortgage lenders and this helped steady
the Asian markets.


"We're in a precarious position, with (Wednesday's) losses
bringing the main index closer to the key 3,000-point level,"
said Rommel Macapagal at Westlink Global Equities.


"Investors are in a wait-and-see mode and want further
confirmation that the strong support previously seen at the 3,000
level still holds," he said.


BPI Securities said in a note that "the unexpected severity of
the Dow Jones Industrial Average's decline on Tuesday and its
probable underlying weakness may spell difficulties for the local
bourse in the coming weeks."


WELLINGTON: New Zealand share prices closed flat, with investor
sentiment improving after US and major regional markets firmed in
the wake of sharp falls, dealers said.


The benchmark NZX-50 index rose 0.80 points to 4,054.21 on
turnover of 138.6 million dollars (96.0 million US).


Grant Williamson, a partner at Hamilton Hindin Greene, said
trading was quiet, excluding volume created by crossings of
shares by international investors in market leader Telecom.


"The market is very flat. Offshore markets in Europe were quite
weak overnight but the Dow Jones started to recover nicely and
the American market closed firmer," Williamson said.


"That stabilised both the Australian and New Zealand markets
today and the Australian market is up quite nicely," he said.


Telecom fell five cents to 4.65 dollars after executives warned
the company's competitive position would be weakened by a changed
regulatory regime.


MUMBAI: Indian shares closed up 0.11 percent, shedding morning
gains as investors booked profit on fears of a further weakening
for global markets, dealers said.


The 30-share Mumbai stock exchange Sensex index closed up 14.23
points to 12,543.85, slipping 1.96 percent intraday from the
day's peak of 12,789.81.


The Sensex on Wednesday had tumbled 453.36 points or 3.49 percent
to 12,529.62.


"The markets opened strong but buying interest failed to sustain.
We see clear weakness in days ahead, tracking global trends,"
said Hiten Mehta, fund manager with Fortune Financial Services.

