

Rich nations will seek common ground with the developing world
about climate change at a meeting starting in Germany on
Thursday, German Environment Minister Sigmar Gabriel said.


Gabriel said the G8, of which Germany is the current president,
wants to dispel the notion in the developing world that it has to
pay for the excesses of the rich nations.


The club of wealthy countries has to deal with fears from India
and to a lesser extent China that they will have to sacrifice
their economic growth for the sake of the environment.


"We must guard against giving developing nations the impression
that the developing world expects them to carry our share of the
burden," he said.


Gabriel confirmed that the gathering of environment ministers
from the G8 and Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South Africa
will not yield a new deal on cutting carbon pollution.


"This will above all be about putting on the table the issues
that worry us," Gabriel told reporters at a briefing ahead of the
opening of the three-day meeting in Potsdam.


"We are going to speak about the barriers that have until now
held back international climate change negotiations and how to
break them," he said.


Gabriel said he would propose the launch of a report about the
impact of the loss of bio-diversity.


It will be based on the 700-page report by British economist
Nicholas Stern which warned of the enormous cost of failing to
curb global warming.


The countries meeting in Potsdam account for more than two-thirds
of the world's carbon pollution.


German officials believe that it offers the best opportunity in
years for making progress towards a global deal on climate
change.


So far the only worldwide pact for reducing global-warming
emissions is the UN's Kyoto Protocol.


The treaty has been virtually crippled by a walkout by the United
States.


Germany, which also heads the EU, last week coralled the
27-nation bloc into a deal to cut its own greenhouse-gas
emissions by 20 percent by 2020.


The bloc promised to up this to 30 percent if its "international
partners" follow suit and the Potsdam meeting is expected to give
the first inkling of whether they will.

