

A Paris court Thursday sentenced French national Willie Brigitte
to nine years in jail for conspiring with Pakistani extremists to
plot terrorist attacks in Australia.


Brigitte, 38, showed no emotion as the verdict was read out in
the Paris criminal court.


A state prosecutor had requested the maximum sentence of 10 years
imprisonment at the end of a three-day trial held last month,
arguing that Brigitte played a major role in the alleged attack
plan.


Deported from Australia in 2003, Brigitte was convicted on
charges of "criminal conspiracy in relation with a terrorist
enterprise."


After converting to Islam in 1998, he veered into radicalism,
running paramilitary camps in France to toughen up Islamist
fighters, and undergoing weapons training in Pakistan, according
to the prosecution.


In May 2003 he travelled to Australia on the orders of the
Pakistani extremist group Lashkar e-Taiba to join a terror cell
run by Faheem Khalid Lodhi, a Pakistani-born radical who was
jailed for 20 years in 2006 for the alleged attack plot, the
prosecution said.


The court heard evidence of a web of connections linking Brigitte
to Lashkar e-Taiba operatives in Australia, Britain and the
United States.


At the time of his arrest Brigitte was in possession of a link to
a website describing sensitive sites including a Sydney nuclear
plant, the city's power grid and military installations around
the country -- all cited by the prosecution as potential targets.


Brigitte's lawyer Jean-Claude Durimel told reporters following
the verdict that he was considering an appeal but needed to
discuss a possible challenge with his client. Under French law,
he has 10 days to appeal.


"The sentence is grotesque," said lawyer Harry Durimel, who also
represented Brigitte. "This is a pure witchhunt. No formal proof
has been provided of Willie Brigitte's involvement in anything
whatsoever."


The lawyers took issue with the court's decision to impose no
possibility of parole for Brigitte for six years, saying it was
unnecessarily harsh, given that he held no previous criminal
record.


"Where is the proof that Willie Brigitte is dangerous?" asked
Harry Durimel.


Born in the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, Brigitte has
been in detention since 2003. He refused to speak throughout his
trial, saying he had "lost all hope of being understood."


Defence lawyers had called for his acquittal, saying Brigitte's
statements to French police were obtained under pressure and that
the prosecution's case was riddled with inaccuracies.

