

The United States withheld judgment on the Palestinian unity
government unveiled Thursday, saying it wanted to see whether the
new administration would meet international conditions for peace
with Israel.


"We will wait until the government is actually in place and we
have an understanding of what their platform will be before we
make any final judgments about it," State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack said.


The White House meanwhile insisted the government grouping the
US-backed Fatah party of president Mahmud Abbas and the radical
Islamic movement Hamas would be judged on whether it abides with
the conditions set by the so-called Quartet of Middle East
mediators.


"Rather than trying to express disappointment, or whatever, we
still continue to hope that President Abbas is going to have the
ability to in fact proceed along those Quartet conditions so that
there can be talks with the government of Israel," said White
House spokesman Tony Snow.


"Our position's been consistent, which is: You need a Palestinian
government that is going to, in fact, abide by the Quartet
conditions," he said.


The conditions laid down by the United States, European Union,
Russia and the United Nations are that the Palestinian government
formally recognize Israel's right to exist, renounce violence and
comply with past peace accords with the Jewish state.


Hamas has so far refused to agree to the demands.


The Quartet has imposed an aid and diplomatic boycott on the
Palestinian government since Hamas won control of the
administration early last year.


Abbas has argued that the boycott should be lifted in light of
the new unity government, which though dominated by Hamas has
respected independents in the key posts of finance minister,
foreign minister and minister of the interior.


McCormack said that despite his deal with Hamas -- aimed at
ending deadly factional fighting between Hamas and Fatah and
lifting the aid embargo -- Washington maintains its strong
support for the moderate Abbas.


"One thing for certain is that we are going to continue working
with President Abbas and his office in order to help support the
effort to build strong governing institutions," he said.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is due to travel to Israel
and the Palestinian territories late next week for talks with
both sides in light of the new government.


Earlier, Israel rejected any contacts with the new Palestinian
government.


"We will not recognize or deal with this government or with
members of this government and we expect the international
community to stand firm in their demand to adopt the three
principles," said spokeswoman Miri Eisen.


In its political program, extracts of which have been obtained by
AFP, the new government stops short of meeting the West's
conditions.


The program says the government will "respect" past agreements,
calls for a "complete truce" in Israeli-Palestinian violence on
condition that it is "reciprocated," and defends the Palestinian
"right of resistance."


The program does not mention Israel and says the new government
will work toward creating a Palestinian state "in the West Bank
and the Gaza Strip, with Jerusalem as the capital" and towards
"the return of refugees to their lands."

