

The men chosen to head the foreign and finance ministries in the
new Palestinian government are both US-educated pragmatists,
while the candidate to head the interior ministry is a virtual
unknown.


Following are profiles of the three, all independent of the
dominant Fatah and Hamas factions.


ZIAD ABU AMR, foreign minister


Abu Amr is a US-educated independent who enjoys good relations
with both the secular Fatah party of president Mahmud Abbas and
the Islamist Hamas movement.


A fierce proponent of democratic reform in the Palestinian
territories, he was for years a professor of political science in
Birzeit University in the West Bank.


Abu Amr first entered parliament in 1996 as an independent
representative from his native Gaza City.


In 2002-2003 he served as culture minister in the government of
then premier Mahmud Abbas and in the 2006 parliamentary election,
he was elected as an independent MP, but with the support of
Hamas.


He heads the Palestinian Council for Foreign Relations, a think-
tank he founded in the mid 1990s and has served as deputy chief
of the MIFTAH civil rights organisation.


Born in 1950 in Gaza City, Abu Amr holds a PhD in comparative
politics from Georgetown University in Washington DC.


He replaces Mahmud al-Zahar, a hardliner and one of Hamas's
senior officials who had difficult relations with Fatah.


He is married and has four children.


SALAM FAYYAD, finance minister


The US-educated technocrat and former official at the
International Monetary Fund is widely respected in the West for
his efforts to bring greater transparency to Palestinian finances
and clamp down on corruption as finance minister from 2002-2005.


His efforts helped persuade international donors to increasingly
channel money directly towards the Palestinian Authority, rather
than via non-government agencies, but it has also brought him
into conflict with the politically astute then prime minister
Ahmed Qorei.


Fayyad resigned in November 2005 in a move sources said was the
result of his anger and frustration about increases in spending
made by Qorei without his approval.


He ran in parliamentary elections of January 2006 at the head of
a small list, "The Third Way," made up of candidates belonging
neither to Fatah or Hamas.


Born in 1952 in the Tulkarem region in the northern West Bank,
Fayyad received a bachelor of science in engineering from the
American University of Beirut, and a masters in business
administration and a doctorate in economics from the University
of Texas.


In 1987 he joined the World Bank in Washington, where he worked
before becoming the IMF's representative in Jerusalem between
1995 and 2001. He also briefly worked at the Arab Bank, serving
as its chief representative in the West Bank.


He is married and has three children.


HANI AL-QAWASMEH, interior ministry


Born in Gaza City in 1958 to a family originally from the West
Bank town of Hebron, Qawasmeh is a virtual unknown in political
circles.


The holder of a master's degree in accounting from the University
of Cairo, he was employed by Al-Azhar University in Gaza. He was
named director of the ministry of civil affairs in 1994 following
the creation of the Palestinian Authority. He later became a
director general at the Islamic Tribunal in Gaza.


Last month, he was appointed as director general of the interior
ministry, a job he had not yet had the opportunity to take up.


While describing himself as an independent, he says he has good
relations with all the various Palestinian factions, including
Fatah and Hamas.


"My primary objective is to respond to the will of the citizen,
who is seeking security and peace," he told AFP. "It is a
difficult mission, and I hope God will help me to accomplish it."


Qawasmeh is married with five daughters.

