

Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete on Thursday went into talks
with Zimbabwe's leader Robert Mugabe following growing
international condemnation of a weekend crackdown on opposition
demonstrators.


The 83-year-old Zimbabwean leader met the visiting Kikwete behind
closed doors in Harare, the southern African country's state
radio reported without giving details.


Tanzania, along with Namibia and Lesotho, is charged with dealing
with the Zimbabwe crisis within the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), a 14-nation regional bloc promoting development
and democracy in the region.


Tanzanian officials had announced a one-day official visit and
said Kikwete, a respected diplomat and peacemaker, was hoping to
cool tensions that threaten to explode in impoverished Zimbabwe.


One official said SADC "appeared" to have asked Kikwete to
mediate a political row that has kept Mugabe in the spotlight and
turned it on to his leading foe, Morgan Tsvangirai, who was badly
beaten by police on Sunday.


"Kikwete has gone to Harare to mediate the conflict between the
ruling party and the opposition. Incidents of last week are being
condemned worldwide," an unnamed foreign ministry official told a
Tanzanian daily on Thursday.


Pressure has piled on Mugabe after police on Sunday crushed an
opposition Movement for Democratic Change rally in the capital
and arrested its leader Tsvangirai and other opposition activists
for defying a police ban.


Police bludgeoned Tsvangirai and several of his supporters while
in custody on Sunday. There has been stiff international
condemnation of the police action which critics said was a
dramatic escalation of Mugabe's opposition crackdown.


Harare has warned that those aiming to oust Mugabe, who has been
in power since independence from Britain in 1980, would "pay a
very heavy price."


Ties have been close between Harare and Dar es Salaam since the
1970s when Tanzania provided military training to liberation
fighters from then Rhodesia to fight their British colonial
rulers and white minority domination.


Last year, Mugabe welcomed his staunch ally, former Tanzanian
president Benjamin Mkapa, when he was appointed to mediate the
strained relations between Harare and Britain.


London later said an opportunity to build international bridges
was lost when former United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan
was prevented last year from visiting Zimbabwe in a move that
threw a spanner into Mkapa's efforts.

