

Britain's Vodafone announced Thursday it had clinched a deal with
India's Essar group for management control of Indian mobile firm
Hutchison Essar following its winning 11.1-billion-dollar bid.


"United we stand here today before you and we will be taking the
business forward in the rapidly expanding Indian mobile market,"
said Vodafone chief executive Arun Sarin, flanked by Essar vice
chairman Ravi Ruia, in New Delhi.


The two sides had been discussing the partnership deal against a
tense background after Essar said it might take court action to
press its first refusal claim over the majority stake Vodafone is
buying.


Vodafone will have "operational control" of the company, to be
renamed Vodafone Essar, and Essar will have "rights consistent"
with its 33 percent shareholding, the companies said in a joint
statement.


Essar will remain a 33 percent shareholder, the statement said.


The British telecom giant, grappling with saturated markets in
Western Europe, won the bidding last month to purchase Hong Kong-
based Hutchison Whampoa's 67-percent stake in Hutchison Essar for
11.1 billion dollars in cash.


Sarin told a news conference that he wanted fourth-place
Hutchison Essar to be "number one in the Indian market by 2010."


"We have a strong springboard with 25 billion subscribers and a
national footprint," he said.


The Indian-born Sarin, who arrived in New Delhi earlier in the
day, said he expected government foreign regulatory investment
approval of Vodafone's purchase "in the coming weeks."


Sarin announced plans to speed up capital expenditure on network
infrastructure, to improve the range of products and services and
provide new services such as money transfer using mobiles.


"We look forward to helping develop the Indian society and
economy through the benefits that mobile telephones can bring,"
he said.


Sarin said Ruia would be chairman of Hutchison Essar, he would be
vice-chairman and Asim Ghosh would remain in his job as chief
executive of Hutchison Essar.

