

France's Atomic Energy Commission will lay the cornerstone Monday
of a nuclear research reactor that will test the longevity of
materials used in a future generation of nuclear energy reactors.


"We have not seen the construction of a research tool like this
anywhere in the world for nearly thirty years," the commission's
general manager, Alain Bugat, said in a press conference
Thursday.


The Jules Horowitz reactor, to be built in Cadarache near
Marseille in southeastern France, will serve several countries in
Europe, said the project's director, Daniel Iracane.


It will not only replace an ageing French research facility that
will be nearly 50 years old by the time the new one is completed
in 2014, it could also replace reactors in Belgium, the
Netherlands, Norway and the Czech Republic that are approaching
obsolescence.


The commission will pay for half of the 500-million euro reactor.
Partners in Spain, the Czech Republic, Belgium and Finland with
pick up another 20 percent of the tab, as will Electricite de
France, the country's main electricity utility.


French nuclear energy group Areva will cover the last 10 percent
of construction costs.


Other potential partners, notably in Japan and Canada, have
expressed an interest in investing, Bugart said.


The 100-megawatt reactor will make it possible to recreate the
physical and chemical environment of current and future nuclear
energy reactors.


Scientists will study the capacity of steel and zirconium -- used
in the construction of the reactors and the casing for fuel rods
-- to resist high temperatures and the constant bombardment of
neutrons. New materials such as ceramics will also be tested.


Even if digital simulation techniques have improved enormously,
commission officials said, real-world tests remain essential.


Construction of France's first so-called "third-generation"
European Pressurized Water Reactor (EPR), located in Flamanville
near the English Channel, is slated to begin by the end of the
year.


France derives around three-quarters of its electricity from
nuclear power, the highest ratio of any country in the world, and
many of its reactors are nearing the end of their usefulness.


The EPR design was developed in the 1990s by Germany's Siemens
and France's Framatome-ANP, a subsidiary of Areva.


It reportedly uses 17 percent less fuel than the types of reactor
currently operating in France, and is designed to generate power
for 60 years.


The 58 French reactors currently in service -- built under a vast
programme launched 30 years ago during the first oil crisis --
will begin to age out of operation beginning in 2015.


Cadarache will also be the site of a multibillion-dollar
experimental nuclear fusion research project, aimed at emulating
the power of the sun to provide limitless, clean energy.


The facility is to be built over a decade starting 2008.


If it is successful, a prototype commercial reactor will be
built, and if that works, fusion technology will be rolled out
across the world.

