

Doctors in southern Spain have disconnected a respirator keeping
alive a woman suffering from muscular dystrophy, two weeks after
she won the right to die, regional authorities said on Thursday.


The regional government in Andalusia ruled on March 1 that 51
-year-old Inmaculada Echevarria's request to die was in line with
a 2002 law allowing a sick person in control of their mental
faculties to refuse treatment.


Echevarria had suffered from muscular dystrophy since childhood,
was almost completely paralysed and for the past 10 years had
been confined to her bed in a hospital run by a religious order.


On Wednesday, she entered a public hospital in Grenada, where
doctors disconnected her respirator. She was pronounced dead at
9:00 pm (2000 GMT), a government statement said, citing her
muscular dystrophy as the cause.


Last November she said she wanted to be allowed to choose to die
"a dignified and painless death", describing her life as empty.


"I am fed up living like this and having to depend on other
people. I want an injection to stop my heart," she added.


El Pais newspaper on Thursday published a long interview with
Echevarria in which she said she had wanted to die for the past
27 years.


Her case is not unique but its high profile has once again
brought the arguments surrounding euthanasia into the public
domain.


The Spanish association Right to Die had welcomed the March 1
decision as "courageous", and said it hoped it would set a
precedent.


In a statement on Thursday it said: "The disconnection of a
respirator should not in any situation be regarded as euthanasia
but rather as the renunciation of treatment and (recognition of)
the limit of therapeutic help."


Describing Echevarria's case as euthanasia reflected people's
"ignorance, fanaticism and bad faith", it added.


But the Roman Catholic Church in Spain opposed the move, with
Seville Archbishop Carlos Amigo saying he was against "any kind
of death sentence, be it legal or self-administered."

