

Here are this week's lifestyle briefs.


WASHINGTON: A record number of men reported being sexually
harassed in the workplace last year, says US Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEOC).


Newly released data showed 15.4 percent of 12,025 sexual
harassment charges in 2006 were filed by men, as opposed to 11.6
percent a decade ago.


The data doesn't indicate whether harassers are male, but experts
say that is typically the case. "There are positive changes in
the workplace that are allowing and encouraging men to report
these claims," said Danny Baker, of the Gender Public Advocacy
Coalition.


"This is also related to an increasing dialogue about what we
call male-on-male sexual harassment." Contrary to expectation,
the people filing the claims as well as the harassers are usually
heterosexual males, he said.


(AFP)


PARIS: French teenage girls are having sex as early as boys and
more are experimenting with homosexuality, says a new report on
sexual behaviour.


Girls become sexually active on average at the age of 17.6,
compared to 17.2 for boys, according to research by INSERM
(National Institute for Health and Medical Research) and INED
(National Institute for Demographic Studies).


Over the past 50 years, men have become sexually active a year
earlier while women have gained three years.


There is also a "significant increase" in the number of women age
18 to 69 who report that they have had sex with another woman:
four percent in the latest survey, up from 2.6 percent in 1992.
Men who reported having homosexual sex remained stable at 4.1
percent.


(AFP)


ROME: Italian fashion house Dolce and Gabbana is halting ads in
Spain after it was forced to withdraw an advert for criticised as
"justifying" violence against women.


"Recently, Spain, with its climate of censorship, has shown
itself willing to negatively interpret all messages even when
there is no reason to do so," a Dolce and Gabbanna statement
said.


The offending advert showed a woman pinned to the ground by a
bare-chested man holding her wrists, as other men in the
background looked on impassively.


It was also banned in Italy in March and subsequently pulled from
the world market.


(AFP)


DUESSELDORF: Where do all the broken, balding Barbie dolls go?


Bettina Dorfmann, a German housewife who has never outgrown her
love for the long-legged, long-haired dolls, has saved hundreds
from ugliness and possible rejection over the past 12 years.


The business is run from her kitchen table, where she replaces
broken limbs and blonde nylon locks lost in playground tugs-of-
war and mends torn ballgowns and nurses' uniforms.


Her services are advertised in a sign which reads: "Barbie
Clinic: We buy or repair your dolls," and by word of mouth.
"People send me dolls from America, Belgium, France, Italy,
Japan, the Netherlands, and a whole lot from Canada," Dorfmann
told AFP. "It is a worldwide operation."


(AFP)


TEHRAN: In Iran where women must abide by Islamic dress rules,
the state is promoting a trendy Islamically-correct 'retro chic'
to woo women away from Western fashion.


Inspired by the country's long history, the new look was on
display at a Tehran fashion show, where creators drew on fabrics
and patterns from as far back as the Achaemenid empire 2,500
years ago to the more recent Qajar monarchy to nudge along an
"Iranian" dress sense.


Visitors to the exhibition were greeted by the sight of dozens of
mannequins draped in colourful clothing covering the head and
body in line with Islamic standards for modesty.


(AFP)


HANOVER, Germany: Traditional German lederhosen with a built-in
cellular phone, a bathroom mirror that gives stock quotes and a
BMW sports car that can talk and listen drew the crowds this week
at world's top high-tech fair.


Leading the gadgets at the CeBIT telecoms, computers and
electronics trade fair are the leather trousers preferred by
thigh-slapping Bavarian dancers but this time they have a modern
twist: a sewn-in mobile phone.


Made by century-old German all-weather clothier Lodenfrey, the
lederhosen feature a mouthpiece embedded in the suspender straps
and a row of unobtrusive olive green buttons down the side of the
thigh -- but away from potential slaps.


(AFP)


ASHTON HAYES, England: A small English village last year set
itself the aim of becoming the country's first carbon neutral
community -- only to be swamped with requests for advice from
around the world.


"I simply didn't want to tell my grandchildren that we knew the
effects of the climate change and that we didn't care," said
Garry Charnock, who is behind the "Going carbon neutral"
campaign.


"Today, about 40 villages and cities such as Manchester, Abu
Dhabi and Rotterdam have contacted us for advice on what to do,"
he added, also citing interest from Australia, New Zealand and
the United States.


Charnock's first act was to ditch his high-powered BMW for a less
gas-guzzling, compact car.


(AFP)


MOSCOW: Russia's super-rich are driving the country closer to the
top of Forbes magazine's ranking of the world's wealthiest
people, but it has won them no love at home.


The new ranking lists 53 Russian billionaires worth a combined
282 billion dollars (215 billion euros), topping the 245-billion-
dollar combined fortune of Germany's 55 billionaires.


Number one spot was again Roman Abramovich, owner of British
football club Chelsea and a former oil magnate, the world's 16th-
richest man with an estimated 18.7 billion dollars.


Russia's richest are generating excitement in Europe for their
quick rise and youth, said Forbes associate editor Luisa Kroll.
"The Russians are, on average, 46 years old."


But most Russians are unimpressed. "It's a disgrace that Russia's
rich spend colossal amounts to amuse themsleves in the eyes of
the world, while their compatriots earn miserable salaries,"
senior Russian Orthodox Church official Metropolitan Kirill said.


(AFP)


SAN FRANCISCO: US wine exports jumped by 30 percent to 876
million dollars and 404.5 million liters in 2006, with 95 percent
of the wine coming from California, the Wine Institute reported.


The Institute, which represents more than 1,000 California
wineries and related businesses, said in Europe -- where the US
ships more than half of its sales abroad -- exports surged 48
percent by value while in Canada they grew 29 percent by value.


The total amount of liters shipped abroad -- 404.5 million --
represents a four percent increase over 2005.


Other major growth markets outside of Europe and Canada include
China, up 53 percent by value, Singapore, up 68 percent, and Hong
Kong, up 19 percent.


(AFP)


TOKYO: The Michelin guide, the gourmand bible whose stars can
make or break high-end restaurants in Europe, will this year
produce a Tokyo edition, its first in Asia.


The guide, to be released in English and Japanese, is only the
second Michelin guide outside of Europe, after a book on New
York.


Tokyo, the world's largest metropolis, is also believed to have
the highest number of restaurants -- an estimated 300,000.


"Japan really has things that are marvelously well done,"
Michelin's publications director, Jean-Luc Naret, told a news
conference in Tokyo.


(AFP)

