

Taiwan's main opposition party on Thursday branded the
independence-leaning government provocative and rude for removing
the biggest statue of its former leader and president Chiang Kai-
shek.


The statue's removal in the southern city of Kaohsiung Tuesday
night sparked clashes between police and supporters of the
opposition Kuomintang party.


"The way the DPP handled the issue was provocative and rude," KMT
secretary- general Wu Den-yih said of the ruling Democratic
Progressive Party in a statement.


Dozens of KMT politicans scuffled with about 400 police to try to
stop the scrapping of the island's biggest seated statue, which
measures 8.17 metres (26.96 feet) in height.


It was erected 26 years ago in Kaohsiung's "Chiang Kai-shek
cultural centre" which the city government has also renamed
"Kaohsiung cultural centre".


The DPP insists that as a democratic country, Taiwan has no need
for statues of the former "dictator".


The move is the latest is a series of name-changes by the DPP
which the opposition said is aimed at cutting off the island's
Chinese roots.


Chiang fled to Taiwan from the Chinese mainland in 1949 after his
Nationalist troops were defeated in a civil war by the communist
forces led by Mao Zedong.


The KMT says although Chiang's role in the KMT's authoritarian
rule is questionable, his contributions to safeguard Taiwan from
the Chinese communist invasion during the Cold War should be
remembered.


Chiang died in 1975 after ruling the island for 26 years. His son
Chiang Ching- kuo became president in 1978 and died in 1988.


The KMT's 51-year grip on power ended when the party lost the
2000 presidential elections to the DPP.


Chiang is considered a hero by a number of mainlanders who fled
to Taiwan.


"Without the old president, we would not be what we are today,"
said an elderly retired soldier in a state veterans' home in
Panchiao in Taipei county.


The DPP government is also planning to rename the memorial for
Chiang in Taipei, after removing his name from an international
airport in Taoyuan last year in a move estimated to cost 21.5
million Taiwan dollars (655,488 US).

