

Zimbabwe's security forces are randomly beating up members of the
public as they conduct sweeps through neighbourhoods in searches
for opposition supporters, a top human rights group said
Thursday.


The New York-based Human Rights Watch documented examples of
increased police brutality during a recent field trip to the
troubled southern African country and warned that unrest was only
likely to intensify.


"The crisis is reaching a breaking point and it is likely to get
a lot worse ... There is so much fear in Zimbabwe, security
agents are everywhere," HRW researcher Tiseke Kasambala told
reporters in Johannesburg as she presented the findings of her
two-week visit.


"Police forces have been going door-to-door beating people up in
their homes. The main reason we found for this is that they are
accused of supporting the MDC," she said.


Kasambala told the story of how one family who were not
supporters of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) were
viciously beaten by police who had accused them of being
followers of the main opposition party.


She noted examples of citizens being taken away by police forces
and being brutalised for having suspected links to the opposition
party.


"We recorded a spate of abductions of innocent civilians," she
said.


Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe has come in for widespread
international condemnation over the arrests and subsequent
assaults on dozens of MDC activists, including party leader
Morgan Tsvangirai, earlier this month.


Kasambala said that the government's hardline tactics were only
likely to further inflame the situation in a country where
unemployment is now 80 percent and food shortages are widepread.


"People are getting angry. The abuses taking place are only going
to lead to further violence and unrest in Zimbabwe," she said.


"Our concern is that this anger is going to turn into violence
and it will be a spiral of violence."


The HRW report comes as southern African leaders meet in Tanzania
to discuss the political and economic crisis in the region's one-
time bread basket.

