

Asian stocks shrugged off another weak performance by Wall Street
to close mainly higher on Thursday with investors confident that
the regional economic prospects remain solid.


US stocks fell heavily Wednesday amid economic concerns as
Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress the outlook
for the depressed housing market was "uncertain."


Bernanke said the housing downturn did not appear to have spread
into the wider economy yet, but his remarks appeared to dash
investor optimism.


The falls impacted on early trade in the Asia Pacific with most
markets opening in negative territory, however, confidence in the
region and two days of falls proved enough to entice buyers back
into the markets.


Hong Kong surged 1.37 percent with Shanghai up 0.77 percent and
at another record high. Seoul rose 0.78 percent, Taipei gained
0.77 percent, Singapore was up 0.85 percent, Mumbai gained 0.74
percent and Sydney was 0.64 percent higher.


Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and Wellington were flat while Manila bucked
the trend and closed down 0.35 percent on Wall Street's lead.


TOKYO: Share prices closed almost flat, coming off early lows as
investors remained cautious ahead of a raft of data on the US and
Japanese economies.


Dealers said that an overnight selloff on Wall Street weighed on
sentiment initially but worries about the impact on Japanese
exporters of a stronger yen eased after the dollar staged a
modest rebound.


The Nikkei-225 index rose 9.21 points to 17,263.94. Turnover
reached 2.34 billion shares, up from 2.24 billion on Wednesday.


On Wall Street, the Dow Jones index fell 0.78 percent on
Wednesday after US Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke told
Congress the outlook for the depressed housing market was
uncertain and that inflation was still a concern.


"The biggest interest shown by investors at the moment is in the
US as softer US demand could hurt the earnings of Japan's major
exporters and a weaker Wall Street may dampen offshore investors'
appetite for Japanese stocks," said Tatsuo Kurokawa, a strategist
at Japan Asia Securities.


The market is awaiting a slew of Japanese economic indicators on
Friday including inflation, unemployment and industrial output,
while a final estimate of US fourth quarter economic growth was
due later Thursday


Utilities led the gainers. Tokyo Electric Power rose 100 yen or
2.44 percent at 4,190 and Kansai Electric Power firmed 60 yen or
1.71 percent to 3,560.


Sanyo Electric jumped 18 yen to 205 after the ailing electrical
equipment company replaced its president Toshimasa Iue -- a
member of the founding family -- with executive officer Seiichiro
Sano.


HONG KONG: Share prices closed 1.37 percent higher in a technical
rebound after two days of falls, with CNOOC and China Unicom
posting steep gains ahead of their 2006 results.


Dealers said the market was supported by last-minute buying ahead
of the settlement of March futures as well as some end-quarter
window-dressing.


The Hang Seng Index closed up 267.91 points at 19,821.78.
Turnover was 56.52 billion Hong Kong dollars (7.3 billion US).


"The market saw a technical rebound after a two-day fall, with
some futures related buying providing support," said Castor Pang,
strategist at Sun Hung Kai Financial group.


He said the market is expected to remain volatile in the near
term as it takes leads from overseas market as well as US
economic data.


Further gains will be limited as the index is above the 19,800
level, Pang added.


HSBC gained 0.50 to 136.0.


SEOUL: Share prices closed 0.78 percent higher with sentiment
boosted by strong program buying and gains on other Asian markets
despite a poor overnight performance on Wall Street.


Dealers said investors shrugged off lackluster industrial output
data and concern about corporate earnings due next month


Industrial output contracted 0.4 percent year-on-year in
February, a sharp reverse from the 7.5 percent growth in January
and well short of market forecasts for a gain of 2.8-3.2 percent.


The KOSPI index added 11.21 points at 1,450.95. Volume was 277
million shares worth 3.3 trillion won (3.5 billion dollars).


"The market reversed all of Wall Street-led early losses, which
shows that investor sentiment is quite solid," said Daewoo
Securities analyst Lee Kyung- Soo.


Samsung Electronics dipped 3,000 won to 569,000.


TAIPEI: Share prices closed 0.77 percent higher as early losses
sparked by Wall Street's overnight weakness were reversed by
window-dressing ahead of the end of the current quarter this
week.


Dealers said bargain-hunting helped the market set aside concerns
over inflation in the US and high global oil prices.


The weighted index closed up 60.19 points at 7,848.33. Turnover
was 114.55 billion Taiwan dollars (3.46 billion US).


SinoPac Securities assistant vice president Alvin Teng said
quarter-end window- dressing and bargain-hunting outpaced
declines triggered by the fall overnight in New York markets.


"Investors hunted for bargains and conducted some window-dressing
before closing the books for the current quarter," Teng said.


However, he said it was too early to predict the market's next
decisive direction.


"Consolidation could be the theme for the local market going
forward, with investors awaiting (further) US economic data."


Acer Inc fell 1.10 to 63.00 on lingering concerns over Hewlett-
Packard Co's lawsuit against it on alleged patent infringement.


SHANGHAI: Share prices closed mixed with the Shanghai market
boosted by institutional buying of heavyweight banks while
Shenzhen fell on profit-taking.


Dealers said that buying in banks pushed up the key Shanghai
index to new high but Shenzhen's technology-heavy board was
unable to follow suit.


Turnover remained strong amid expectations that fresh funds, a
plan by regulators to launch index futures and a set of strong
corporate earnings will see share prices move even higher still.


On Wednesday total volumes in Shanghai and Shenzhen were
particularly heavy at more than 28 billion dollars, a level that
makes mainland China the most active market in Asia, even ahead
of Tokyo on a daily comparison.


The Shanghai Composite Index added 24.52 points  at 3,197.54, a
new closing record, on turnover of 140.36 billion yuan (18.11
billion dollars).


"Institutional investors bought financial stocks ahead of the
upcoming (launch of) index futures. Furthermore, these banks and
brokerages are all expected to post robust earnings for this
year," said Zeng Bo, an analyst at Changjiang Securities.


Dealers noted however that the gains were concentrated in a
narrow band while the broader Shanghai market was weaker.


"The Shanghai market was mainly supported by strength in
heavyweight banking stocks, with over 70 percent of Shanghai-
listed companies closing in negative territory," said Zhang Yi,
an analyst at Yibang Investment.


Bank of China was up 0.34 yuan at 5.67.


SYDNEY: Share prices closed 0.64 percent higher as investors
shrugged off Wall Street weakness and took inspiration from
generally firmer Asian markets.


Dealers said a rebound in Tokyo from sharp early losses, after
comments from US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke appeared
to rule out any early cut in interest rates, helped steady
sentiment here.


The SP/ASX 200 was up 37.7 points at 5,960.9. Turnover was 1.58
billion shares worth 6.5 billion dollars (5.2 billion US).


"Solid weakness in the morning (and then) dragged up by the Asian
markets, especially Tokyo, later in the day," said MAN Financial
broker Anthony Anderson.


"In reality we are more influenced by Asian markets, relying more
on our neighbours and trading partners than the US."


Dealers said investors followed the lead of large funds seen as
squaring positions in the futures market ahead of the end of the
March quarter on Friday.


Bell Potter Securities private client advisor Stuart Smith said
book squaring and competition between funds to balance portfolios
for the reporting period supported the wider market higher.


National Australia Bank added 0.03 at 40.15.


SINGAPORE: Share prices closed 0.85 percent higher on renewed
interest in banking and property stocks.


Dealers said confidence the domestic economy will continue to
post decent growth this year despite fears of a slower global
economy.


The Straits Times index closed up 27.13 points at 3,228.88 on
volume of 1.82 billion shares worth 1.70 billion dollars (1.13
billion US).


"Despite concerns over economic slowdown in the US, I think the
Singapore economy will still achieve decent growth this year," a
dealer with a foreign brokerage said.


He noted continuing strong demand for high-end residential
properties as well as for prime office space, testament to
optimism in the domestic economy.


Property shares led the gains with Keppel Land up 0.25 to 9.50,
City Developments gaining 0.40 to 14.80, and CapitaLand up 0.15
at 8.00.


United Overseas Bank added 0.30 at 21.20.


KUALA LUMPUR: Share prices closed flat with profit-taking on
selected blue chips offset by a strong return by retail investors
to the market.


The composite index inched up 0.65 points to 1,235.89 on volume
of 2.3 billion shares worth 2.3 billion ringgit (665.70 million
dollars).


"The broader market was more robust today, indicating that retail
players are back in the market," said head of research at SJ
Securities, Cheah King Yoong.


"Buying interest was strong on the lower liners, as well as
stocks related to the Iskandar Development Region, with a good
dose of speculative buying,'' he said, referring to a region in
southern Johor state targeted for massive development.


"The lower liners are starting to catch up, and this is good for
the market as we do not want to be too dependent on the foreign
funds," he added.


Tenaga was flat at 11.50.


BANGKOK: Share prices closed 0.39 percent higher, rebounding from
sharp falls the previous day, amid political and economic
uncertainty under the kingdom's army-backed government.


Dealers said buying was limited with investors staying on the
sidelines as global oil prices held around six-month highs due to
escalating tensions between Iran and the West.


The composite index rose 2.58 points to 671.62 on turnover of 985
million shares worth 5.6 billion baht (160 million dollars).


"Investors were concerned about political uncertainty and its
impact on the economy," said Kavee Chukitkasem, an assistant
managing director of Kasikorn Securities.


On Thursday, Thai authorities decided to close down a park in
central Bangkok to prevent anti-coup protesters from staging a
rally there at the weekend.


The move came a day after Thailand's junta leader, General Sonthi
Boonyaratglin, called on the government to declare emergency rule
in the capital to crack down on swelling anti-coup protests.


Bangkok Bank rose 1.00 to 108.00.


JAKARTA: Shares prices closed 0.96 percent higher amid hopes of
an interest rate cut by the country's central bank.


The composite index rose 17.327 points to close at 1,817.719 on
volume of 3.16 billion shares worth 3.57 trillion rupiah (391.02
million dollars).


Krishna Dwi Setiawan, an analyst with Valbury Asia Securities
said, a turnaround in regional sentiment also helped share
prices.


"I think a rebound in regional markets was key to turning around
sentiment because investors were hesitant to take positions in
early trade after Wall Street's overnight decline," he said.


Inco rose 4,300 rupiah to 51,300.


MANILA: Share prices closed 0.35 percent lower as they tracked
Wall Street's overnight weaker performance.


The composite index fell 11.09 points to 3,151.72. Turnover
totalled 3.06 billion shares worth 4.4 billion pesos (91.06
million dollars).


"The downtick in New York weighed on investor sentiment," said
Jasper Jimenez, a broker at BDO Securities Corp.


Stocks fell overnight on Wall Street on renewed inflation worries
compounded by a spike in oil prices amid tensions in the Middle
East.


Dealers said investors here also avoided taking long positions
ahead of the five-day Easter break from Thursday next week.


"There is not much activity so turnover is low. It looks like
this (sluggishness) will prevail till after the Holy Week, unless
something more positive comes up," Jimenez said.


Megaworld Corp retreated 20 centavos to 3.20 pesos.


WELLINGTON: Share prices closed little changed, shrugging off
weakness in US markets.


The NZX-50 gross index rose 2.68 points to 4,112.56 on turnover
worth 130.3 million dollars (92.8 million US).


"In the light of high currency, higher interest rates, higher
energy prices and lower offshore markets, the New Zealand market
has traded almost square today," said Nigel Scott of ABN Amro
Craigs.


"We are coming in to the end of the financial year and probably
most investors have signed off on this period."


Telecom fell three cents to 4.73 dollars.


MUMBAI: Share prices closed up 0.74 percent, snapping three days
of losses, on buying in export-linked software stocks after the
Indian rupee fell against the dollar.


Dealers said the bounce back for the Sensex could be short as
investors fear that India's central bank could raise rates next
month after India's inflation rate held steady at 6.46 percent
last Friday.


The 30-share Mumbai Sensex index rose 95.32 points to 12,979.66.


The RBI will decide full-year monetary policy on April 24 this
year.


"Global tensions relating to oil prices eased and there was some
strong buying in software stocks as the rupee fell against the
dollar," said Advait Date, dealer with brokerage BHH Securities.


Dealers also said there was a smooth rollover of most stock
positions to the next futures market contract which commences
Friday.

