

Three world record holders will put pressure on the women's
100-metres freestyle mark in Friday's feature race on the sixth
night of the world swimming championships.


Australians Libby Lenton and Athens Olympic gold medallist Jodie
Henry will vie with current world record holder Britta Steffen to
give promise of another world record assault.


American Natalie Coughlin, fresh from breaking her 100m
backstroke record to win gold on Tuesday, is in the mix making
for a battle royale in the final.


German sprinter Steffen stunned the swimming world when
unheralded last August she broke Lenton's world record with a new
time of 53.30sec and was also part of two world record-breaking
relay teams.


But the Germans have found it hard going at the world
championships and were fourth behind the Lenton and Henry-led
Australian team in Sunday's 4x100m freestyle relay.


Lenton is vying for her third gold medal at the meet after her
100m butterfly triumph over teammate Jessicah Schipper and her
lead-off swim in the freestyle relay win.


Henry is likely to be charging home as she did in Australia's
relay victory when she ran down Coughlin to pinch the gold medal
on the wall.


Superstar Michael Phelps will get his chance for another gold as
a member of America's 4x200m freestyle team, which is the
reigning world champion after beating Canada and Australia in
Montreal two years ago.


Phelps has been the outstanding swimmer here with world records
in the 200m freestyle and butterfly events and looks to be
getting better as he swims his way through eight events in the
countdown to next year's Beijing Olympics.


The way is clear for Japan's Kosuke Kitajima to reclaim the 200m
breaststroke world title after world champion Brendan Hansen's
withdrawal with a virus.


Hansen, the defending champion and world record holder, was
advised not to swim in the heats after intestinal problems left
him doubled up.


Kitajima, who lost the 100m breaststroke final narrowly to Hansen
on Monday, gets his chance for his third career world title.


"It is unfortunate, the race is not going to be as exciting as
I'd like it to be, but I just want concentrate on myself,"
Kitajima said.


Australia's Leisel Jones gets another chance to swim a world
record before her home crowd in the women's 200m breaststroke
after dominating the discipline since the 2004 Athens Games.


Jones changed coaches after Athens and has since gone on to smash
world records in the 100 and 200 metres, as well as winning three
gold medals at the 2005 world championships.


American Aaron Peirsol is lining up for his third consecutive
world 100-200m backstroke double in the 200m event where he looks
the one to beat again.


Peirsol, the Olympic champion in both events, broke a world
record in winning the 100m final on Tuesday.


"I'll be going after my own thing, if they want to follow that's
fine," Peirsol said.

