

Hopes rose Thursday that South Korea and the United States can
reach a free trade agreement before a weekend deadline despite
persistent differences over farm trade.


The agriculture disputes are the biggest obstacle to an agreement
which, according to some studies, could increase two-way trade by
20 percent over last year's 74 billion dollar figure.


But South Korean analysts and officials are confident that talks
can be concluded this week.


"The two countries are showing a strong will to strike a deal. So
I believe the deal will be done," Lee Kyung-Tae, head of the
Korea Institute for International Economic Policy, told a radio
programme.


A trade official told AFP on condition of anonymity: "There are
growing hopes of a deal, although I cannot say definitely it will
be concluded by the deadline."


Yonhap news agency said an announcement may come early Saturday.


The deadline for agreement is 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the
last working day of the week in Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while US President George W. Bush
still has authority to "fast- track" trade legislation.


South Korea's Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-Seok
reported gradual progress in settling differences over farm
tariffs. Thursday's talks dealt with beef, pork, oranges and
diary and other products.


"Today's meeting focused on how to eliminate import tariffs on
farm products. Rice was not discussed," Min told reporters.


"As we are in the process of narrowing differences, progress is
being made gradually."


Min said the US side is pushing for the early elimination of
tariffs. Any unsolved agricultural issues after further talks
Friday morning would be referred to minister-level discussions.


South Korea says the talks could fail if the US presses it
further to open up the local rice market, while the US side wants
more access for its lucrative beef exports.


Seoul last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over fears of mad
cow disease and agreed to accept US boneless beef. But it then
rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments,
in what the US called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.


The US also wants Korea to cut its 40 percent tariff on beef as
well as tariffs on other farm goods. The auto trade in which
South Korea runs a huge surplus, textiles, anti-dumping remedies
and pharmaceuticals are among other main issues.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, who has pushed hard for a deal despite
mass street protests and opposition from political allies, hinted
there would be a compromise.


A deal "is supposed to be mutually satisfactory. Otherwise, the
deal can't be concluded," he said Wednesday evening during a
visit to Qatar.


Roh said he will decide whether to sign the deal after he returns
home Friday. "As head of state, I myself will make the final
decision."


South Korea rose from post-war poverty to become the world's 11th
largest economy by protecting key industries, but now faces
growing Chinese competition.


Its industries and service sector will be reinvigorated by the
competition which a free trade deal would bring, Roh believes.


"South Korea has never been given serious external shocks due to
the market opening. The pace of South Korea's opening has been
moderate thus far," he said in Qatar.


Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs. On
Wednesday nearly 2,000 people attended a candlelight vigil in
central Seoul.

