

Ailing Cuban leader Fidel Castro, in his first article since
undergoing surgery eight months ago, blasted US President George
W. Bush Thursday for promoting the use of biofuels.


Castro, who has temporarily handed power to his brother while
recovering from a gastrointestinal operation, accused Bush of
condemning billions of people to a "premature death" by promoting
the use of fuel based on food crops.


An early copy of the article was distributed to the press before
appearing Thursday on the front page of the Communist Party's
official newspaper, Granma.


The article, titled "Condemnation to premature death of hunger
and thirst of more than three billion people in the world,"
emerged three days after Bush met with US automakers.


"It is not an exaggerated figure. It is very cautious," the 80
-year-old leader wrote. "I have meditated on this a lot since
President Bush's meeting (Monday) with American automobile
makers."


"The sinister idea of converting food into fuel has been
definitely established as the economic line of US foreign
policy," he wrote.


"I think that reducing and recycling all engines that consume
electricity and fuel is a fundamental and urgent necessity for
all humanity. The tragedy is not reducing these wastes of energy,
it is the idea of converting food into fuel."


Bush has promoted the use of ethanol, which is based on corn or
sugarcane, as an alternative fuel as part of his effort to wean
the United States off its dependence on foreign oil.


During his Latin America tour this month, the United States and
Brazil signed a memorandum of understanding to cooperate in
promoting ethanol. The two countries account for 70 percent of
the fuel's production.


Bush has proposed setting mandatory fuel requirements that would
result in quintupling the current consumption of renewable and
alternative fuels to 35 billion gallons (133 billion liters) by
2017.


In his article, Castro warned that 320 million tonnes of corn
would be needed to produce 35 billion gallons of ethanol, leaving
millions of people without food.


The use of biofuels, combined with water shortages in the world,
would prematurely kill some 3.5 billion people, he warned.


Castro also expressed in his article his concerns about water
shortages in the world and the state of the environment.


While Castro, who has led Cuba since 1959, has yet to appear in
public, he has been seen on official Cuban television and
newspaper photographs.


Officials, families and friends have given upbeat updates about
his health in recent weeks.


His older brother, Ramon, 82, said Wednesday Castro was "very
well" and "in one piece."


A top Cuban official indicated last week that Castro was on the
mend and could soon resume a more active role in government work.


"What we are expecting is that we will have him back (at work)
with us, in a more active way, soon," Communist Party Politburo
member and Basic Industry Minister Yadira Garcia told reporters
on March 20.


"Our comandante is recovering, his recovery process is making
progress," Garcia said.


Castro handed over power for the first time in more than four
decades in July to his brother and regime number-two Raul Castro,
75, following the surgery.


Castro's health has been the subject of much speculation over the
past months, with US officials at one stage suggesting that
Washington's longtime nemesis had just days left to live.


Much to the chagrin of hardline Cuban exiles in Miami, who had
prematurely danced on his grave, video footage of Castro
broadcast on January 30 showed him looking healthier and more
alert than in the previous pictures released by Cuban
authorities.


Bolivian President Evo Morales, a close Cuban ally, said this
month Castro would make his first public appearance since last
year on April 28, at a meeting in Havana of leaders from the
alternative development group Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), backed by Cuba.

