

If Russia and Latvia have finally settled their 15-year dispute
and signed a treaty delineating their common border, it is down
to economic pragmatism, say analysts in both countries.


"The signing of the border treaty allowed us to renew our
cooperation," said Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov on
Wednesday, a day after he signed the treaty with his visiting
Latvian counterpart Aigars Kalvitis.


For his part, Kalvitis had a similar message.


"It is very important for Latvia to have stable and pragmatic
relations with Russia," he said.


It was a measure of the significance of this breakthrough that
Kalvitis was received by Russian President Vladimir Putin at his
residence at Novo-Ogarevo, near Moscow.


This is, after all, the first official visit to Russia by a
Latvia head of government in 13 years. During that period, the
two neighbours were locked in a seemingly intractable cycle of
political squabbling.


As with its Baltic neighbours Lithuania and Estonia, Latvia's
relations with Russia were fraught with the legacy of the Soviet
era, which finally ended in 1991.


When the Baltic states finally broke free from the Soviet Union
and regained their independence, Moscow accused them, Latvia in
particular, of abusing the rights of the large Russian
minorities.


But their presence was itself the legacy of the communist policy
of Russification of the Baltics during the occupation, when tens
of thousands were deported from the Baltic states and equal
numbers of Russians shipped in.


Latvia, like the other Baltic states, has called in vain for an
apology from Moscow for the 50 years of Soviet occupation, which
began in 1940.


Despite all this, Russia and Latvia had a border agreement ready
to be signed as far back as 1997.


But Russia subsequently refused to sign the pact after the Baltic
state appended a unilateral declaration that stressed that Latvia
had been occupied by the Soviet Union.


Nor did Russia appreciate the Baltic states' increasing
rapprochement with the West: all three joined the European Union
and the NATO military alliance in 2004.


Then in March, Latvia's parliament decided to withdraw its
contentious annex to the border treaty.


Under the 1997 text of the border treaty, finally signed on
Tuesday, Russia keeps the 1,294-square-kilometre (500-square-
mile) Pytalovo district -- known to Latvians as Abrene -- which
Moscow annexed in 1944.


Latvia had added an explanatory note to the treaty to say that a
1920 accord in which Russia recognised Latvia's independence and
its border after the fall of the Tsarist empire was still in
effect, prompting a refusal by Moscow to sign.


President Putin, congratulating Kalvitis on having signed the
treaty, spelled out on Wednesday what the fruits of that
compromise would be. More than 20 agreements were in different
stages of negotiation between the countries, he said.


"We know how much issues of transit and energy are important for
Latvia," he added, referring to discussions on border transit
issues and energy cooperation.


But in a nod to their remaining political differences, he also
acknowledged that it did not settle every issue.


Gazprom announced Wednesday that its chairman Alexey Miller had
met Kalvitis Wednesday to discuss long-term "issues relevant to
deeper cooperation between Russia and Latvia in the gas sector."


That included Latvia's role in a Russo-German pipeline through
the Baltic and a new gas depot for Latvia, the Latvian embassy
reported.


"Moscow and Riga have put their political differences to one side
in the name of their mutually advantageous economic relations,"
said Leonid Grigoryev, director of the Russian institute for
energy and finance.


"Latvia was once the Soviet republic that distributed Russian gas
to Estonia and Lithuania," he added.


"If it builds a big depot for Russian gas it could,
theoretically, supply gas to central Europe," he told AFP.


Other possibilities were also opening up, said Grigoryev. "Latvia
will also be able to raise the question of Russian goods
transiting its territory," he said. The political chill had meant
that this traffic had diminished considerably.


"Behind Russia's foreign policy there are always energy
interests," said Fyodor Lukyanov, chief editor of the review
Russia in Global Affairs.


He cited the closing in 2002 of the pipeline that supplied the
Latvian port of Ventspils with Russian oil.


"Energy interests pushed Moscow and Riga to forget their
political rhetoric and to make mutual concessions," said Latvian
political analyst Agnese Margevica in the independent daily
Neatkariga.

