

Oil prices held around six-month highs in Asian trade Thursday as
escalating tensions between Iran and the West continued to plague
the market, dealers said.


They said the latest US stockpile figures had not provided as
much support as expected, leaving players with no fresh lead to
chase for the moment after sharp gains were notched-up on
Wednesday.


At 2:45 pm (0645 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 24 cents at 63.84 US
dollars a barrel from 64.08 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May was down eight cents at 65.70
dollars.


In New York trade Wednesday, rumours of a military confrontation
with Iran sent the market rocketing to 68.09 dollars at one
point, the highest level since September 6. The rumours quickly
proved false.


"The Iranian situation has dominated trade but the lower-than-
expected gasoline drawdown has kept the market down a bit," said
Commonwealth Bank of Australia commodities strategist Tobin
Gorey.


The latest figures Wednesday showed US gasoline (petrol) reserves
fell only 300,000 barrels to 210.2 million in the week to March
23, against forecasts of a fall of 2.1 million barrels. Gasoline
stocks have been closely watched as demand increases ahead of the
US summer season.


Crude stockpiles fell 900,000 barrels to 328.4 million, compared
with a market forecast for an increase of 2.3 million barrels.


The main focus was on Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer
of oil.


"People are worried there will be a sequence of events that may
interrupt oil supply," said Gorey.


"If it gets resolved, the premium (from) Iran will be dissipated
and the market will likely gravitate towards 60 dollars."


Iran is also involved in a dispute with the West over its nuclear
programme.


Britain announced a freeze on all official ties with Iran over
the Islamic state's detention since last Friday of sailors and
marines in the Gulf.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced the freezing of ties
shortly after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to increase
pressure on Tehran, which he said faced "total isolation."


"With geopolitical tensions so high, the market can quickly react
to any further escalation ... it gives us an idea what would
happen to prices immediately following a US preemptive strike, an
Iranian launch, or a UK offensive to retrieve their captured
soldiers," said Eric Wittenauer at AG Edwards.

