

Three people were killed and a 14-year-old girl was missing after
a Sydney Harbour ferry smashed into a boat carrying leading
members of Australia's ice skating community.


Two international-level skating judges were among the dead and a
former Olympian had her leg amputated after the ferry ploughed
into a motor cruiser beneath the iconic Sydney Harbour Bridge
late Wednesday.


Promising teenage skater Morgan Innes was still missing Thursday,
despite an intensive search by police helicopters, divers and
patrol boats.


Authorities said the 10-metre (33-foot) wooden pleasure craft
broke apart when the catamaran hit it late Wednesday -- the
second fatal accident this year involving the ferries that carry
thousands of commuters and tourists daily.


"It was a catastrophic impact because this wooden cruiser appears
to have just disintegrated and the people were flung into the
water," Sydney Ferries chief Geoff Smith told reporters.


Two ferries, a police vessel and a naval patrol boat arrived on
the scene almost immediately and helped pluck survivors from the
water.


Clive Marshall, a passenger on one of the ferries helping in the
rescue, said it was a chaotic scene.


"There were people in the water. There was a lot of wreckage,
lots of shouting, mayhem, terrible sight," he told ABC radio.


Australian Professional Skaters Association president Judy Bosler
said the party of 12 were unwinding on the harbour after a
skating clinic and the country's close-knit skating community was
devastated.


"It's an absolute tragedy for us because it's a small community
and we're all reliant on each other," she said.


Bosler confirmed international-level judges Alan Blinn and Simone
Moore were killed, along with an unidentified second man.


Former Olympic figure skater Liz Cain lost a leg in the accident.


The accident was the 14th since 2004 involving the 28 state-owned
ferries that ply Sydney Harbour.


The ferries carry more than 13 million passengers a year,
including commuters and tourists seeking a waterside view of
attractions such as the Sydney Opera House.


In January, another catamaran ferry ran into a small fishing
boat. A fisherman injured in the crash died in hospital eight
days later.


Smith admitted there were question marks over the ferry service's
safety record but insisted it was improving.


"The record was poor but it's got much better through a sustained
effort," he said.


"I don't accept that we have a worsening safety record, what we
have is one that is improving.


The stricken ferry and remains of the cruiser were retrieved and
will be examined by forensic experts.

