

A French nun at the centre of the Vatican case for beatifying
pope John Paul II, works in a Paris maternity clinic, a spokesman
for the facility said Thursday.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, 45, a member of the Congregation of
Little Nuns of Catholic Maternity Wards from Puyricard, near the
southern city of Aix-en- Provence, has been working at the
Sainte-Felicite clinic since late 2006.


The nun's testimony of being miraculously cured of Parkinson's
disease after praying to John Paul II is a key part of the
dossier put together on the beatification of the late pontiff,
which would put him on the first step to sainthood.


The identity of the nun who had written to the Vatican with the
account of her "miracle" cure was to have been revealed on Sunday
by Aix-en-Provence Archbishop Claude Feidt.


She is to give a news conference at 10:30 am (0830 GMT) on Friday
in Aix-en- Provence, the diocese said in a statement.


A spokesman reached by telephone at the Sainte-Felicite clinic in
south-central Paris confirmed that Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre
worked as a nurse at the maternity ward.


The French daily Le Figaro, who spoke to some clinic co-workers,
described her as a "dynamic and discreet little nun".


The newspaper quoted excerpts of her testimony in which she
described how in April 2005, her health had deteriorated, and she
was being "ravaged by the disease week after week. I felt myself
weakening day after day and I could not write... or if I did, it
was barely legible."


After the death of John Paul II that same month, her congregation
began to pray to the late pope to intercede on behalf of Sister
Marie-Simon-Pierre.


In June, she asked to be relieved of her duties but was told by
her mother superior to stay the course and to write a letter to
John Paul II, who also suffered from Parkinson's disease, a
degenerative disorder with no known cure.


Later that evening, Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre retired to her room
and said she "felt compelled to write as if someone were telling
me 'pick up your pen and write'".


"The writing was clearly legible," she said. That night, she
recalled waking up "stunned that I had been able to sleep. My
body was no longer in pain."


The nun attended mass that morning and said that after emerging
from church: "I was convinced that I was cured".


She stopped treatment and on June 7, a neurologist who had been
treating her for the past four years told her that "all
indications" of the disease had disappeared.


At the end of 2006, she left Puyricard for Paris where she joined
the team of nurses at Sainte-Felicite clinic.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is essential in the beatification
process.


The Rome diocese's website carries dozens of testimonials from
individuals claiming cures at the hands of the pope, but to
qualify as a miracle the recovery must be sudden, complete and
permanent -- as well as inexplicable by doctors.

