

A new Hong Kong pressure group Thursday launched legal action
against the government for failing in its current policies to
improve the poor air quality and protect the citizens from it.


The Clean Air Foundation, formed by long-term resident and lawyer
Gordon Oldham, said it had applied to the High Court Thursday
seeking a judicial review of government's efforts to improve the
air quality in the territory.


According to a court document, Oldham, a Hong Kong resident of 28
years, said the government had breached its legal obligations to
take adequate steps to reduce the air pollution, despite several
studies stating its damage.


He also said the worsening air had aggravated the chances of
disease, causing "noxious" health damage to local residents.


"The government has not adopted appropriate legislative,
administrative, budgetary, judicial, promotional and other
measures that would enable the full realisation of the right to
health," he said in the document.


"The air we breathe in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is
poisoning us, shortening our lives and then killing many of us,"
he said.


Hong Kong's pollution problem has become so bad that business
groups have taken up the issue, warning the unhealthy air is
deterring investment and tourists.


Surveys by green groups show local residents are increasingly
suffering from smog-related illnesses.


Oldham said pollution was hurting the city as a global financial
centre, and the level of pollutants in the city more than doubled
and was even three times worse than major world cities such as
New York, Paris and London.


He argued the government had legal obligations under
international human rights laws to protect the health of its
citizens.


"The right to life is the most important component of all of the
major international human rights instruments," the document said.


"The right to life in particular carries with it a positive
obligation on the part of the government to do its utmost to
protect the life of its residents by planning and regulating for
clean air across its territory.


"It is important to recognise that the right to life cannot be
meaningfully protected without giving due regard to the right to
health," he added.


A recent study by the Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology and local think-tank Civic Exchange said most of the
pollution blighting the territory was produced in the city
itself, rather than emissions from neighbouring southern China,
as is popularly believed.


While the government said it was committed to cutting down
pollution, environmentalists criticised it for doing too little.


The Environmental Protection Department declined to comment on
the case, as it was studying the court document.

