

India's top court put on hold Thursday controversial affirmative
action legislation that would have meant nearly half of all
university places were set aside for the poor.


The Supreme Court ruling marks a major setback for the ruling
Congress coalition, which had introduced the legislation to help
fulfil its election manifesto to help the disadvantaged.


The government had based the legislation on figures from a 1931
census -- taken when India and Pakistan were still one country --
and the court ruled that this meant the plan was fundamentally
flawed.


"The government has failed to provide any authentic or reliable
data to justify its policy of reservation," Justice Arijit
Pasayat and Justice L.S. Panta ruled.


"What may have been the data in 1931 census cannot be a
determinative factor now," they said, adding it was "desirable to
put on hold" the reservation plan.


The government announced last April that it would more than
double "reservation quotas" in medical, engineering and
management colleges to nearly 50 percent.


The declaration led to protests and revived memories of a
similar, bitter row in the early 1990s that led to violence,
student suicides and the fall of a government.


Under a constitutional measure to bring victims of the most
severe discrimination into the mainstream, India already sets
aside 22.5 percent of university places and jobs for "scheduled"
tribes and castes such as the dalits, once known as untouchables.


In its new legislation, the government was planning to lift the
quota for universities to 49.5 percent to embrace the "other
backward castes" -- or OBCs -- who are one rung up on India's
complex social ladder.


Champions of the plan say it is needed to give lower castes a
better chance at quality education and ensure India's nine
percent economic growth is "inclusive." They compare it to US
affirmative action programmes.


But critics say the move is a "naked" vote grab that could lower
academic standards, and argue it would be better for the
government to give a decent basic education to the legions of
students who have poor schools or no schools.

