

A suicide bomber approached troops working near an army driver
training centre in eastern Pakistan and blew himself up Thursday,
killing one soldier and wounding seven others, officials said.


The attacker struck on the outskirts of Kharian, a garrison town
135 kilometers (85 miles) southeast of the capital Islamabad,
chief military spokesman Major General Waheed Arshad said.


The blast came amid a wave of unrest gripping key US ally
Pakistan, with troops also enforcing a curfew in a northwestern
town and tribesmen fighting foreign Al-Qaeda militants in a
tribal area bordering Afghanistan.


"It was a suicide bombing. There are two casualties, one was the
suicide bomber and the other was a member of military personnel,"
Arshad told AFP.


"The soldiers were sitting near their vehicle outside the
garrison area doing some work and the bomber came and blew
himself up."


Another security official said that one soldier was killed and
seven were wounded. "All were army men," the official told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


Troops sealed off the area after the explosion and an
investigation was underway, local policeman Mohammad Abrar said.
Senior police and administration officials were at the scene but
the army was handling the probe, he said.


No one claimed responsibility for the bombing.


The attack comes two days after gunmen on motorbikes hurled
grenades and opened fire on an army vehicle in a Pakistani tribal
area, killing five members of the powerful military-run Inter
Services Intelligence spy agency.


Thursday's bombing is the eighth in a series of suicide blasts
that have rocked Pakistan this year leaving scores of people
dead, including two in the capital Islamabad and others targeting
police and troops.


Authorities blamed most of the blasts on Pakistani Taliban
militants who were enraged by a military air strike on an alleged
Al-Qaeda training facility in the troubled South Waziristan
tribal area in January.


In November a suicide bomber killed 42 soldiers at an army base
in Dargai, northwest Pakistan, again in apparent revenge for a
missile raid on an alleged terrorist camp.


Troops enforced a curfew for a second day Thursday in the
northwestern town of Tank, which borders South Waziristan, after
rocket and grenade clashes between security forces and Taliban
rebels left five people dead.


Meanwhile Pakistani tribesmen fought fresh battles with Uzbek and
Chechen Al- Qaeda insurgents in South Waziristan itself on
Thursday, shattering a seven-day ceasefire in the region where
160 people died last week.

