

A communist-ruled eastern Indian state has agreed to relocate but
not abandon plans to build a massive petrochemicals hub following
deadly protests by furious villagers.


"Any death is tragic. We don't want clashes, bloodshed and deaths
for industrialisation," an official quoted Buddhadev
Bhattacharya, the communist chief minister of West Bengal, as
telling a public meeting on Wednesday.


The state had set aside land around the village of Nandigram as
part of its plans to set up Special Economic Zones (SEZs),
modelled on a Chinese programme to give foreign companies large
tax-free enclaves to spur industrialisation.


But 14 villagers opposed to the compulsory purchase of their
farmland on behalf of Indonesia's Salim group were shot dead
during a clash with police on March 14.


"My party and the government have learnt from the mistakes from
Nandigram," he said of the violence at the village, situated
around 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of the state capital
Kolkata.


"I am officially saying that the government won't go to Nandigram
as the people of the area are opposed to it," Bhattacharya said.


"We can't afford to lose the chemical hub," he said. "It will be
set up in a suitable place."


West Bengal's commerce and industry secretary Sabyasachi Sen the
state government would file a "fresh application to the federal
ministry of chemical and fertilisers to consider Haldia as one of
the locations."


Haldia, a town near a port of the same name, already houses a
modern petrochemical complex, 128 kilometres from Kolkata.


The controversial SEZ scheme, launched in 2005, has met with
massive protests from those living on land earmarked for such
zones.


It has also sparked debate over whether farmland should be used
for industry in India, where some two-thirds of the billion-plus
population live off agriculture.


Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said last week that his
government would not reverse plans to create SEZs, although the
federal government has promised to come up with a compensation
package for displaced villagers.


Authorities in the eastern state of Orissa, which borders West
Bengal, meanwhile announced they were dropping one of five
planned SEZs.


The "SEZ spread over 250 acres (101 hectares) for metallurgy-
based engineering and downstream industries at Kalinga Nagar has
been dropped for the time being," state Industries Minister
Biswabhusan Harichandan said in a statement.


Last January, 13 protestors died when authorities forceably tried
to clear the land of the tribal people in Kalinganagar, situated
100 kilometres (62 miles) northeast of Orissa's state capital
Bhubaneswar.


Orissa has received 17 proposals for setting up of SEZs, although
so far only five have been given the formal go-ahead.


Of the five SEZs, four are being developed by the state-run
Infrastructure Development Corporation of Orissa (IDCO) while one
is given to private firm, Jindal Stainless Limited.

