

Seventeen Chinese nationals in a wildlife poaching outfit have
been caught with 240 protected turtles, most of them dead, in the
second such seizure this week, police said Thursday.


Only 20 of the 240 Hawksbill and Green turtles were found alive
after marine police arrested the poachers, from southern Hainan
province, off the coast of eastern Sabah state.


Sabah marine police chief Mohamad Sueb Abdullah said marine
police boarded the boat after sighting it in waters off the coast
on Wednesday morning.


"We checked and we found out that there were 220 dead turtles and
about 20 still alive, and three sharks," Mohamad Sueb told AFP.


"Seventeen of them were arrested on board, one skipper and
another 16 workers. The boat is from China, they are of Chinese
nationality," he said.


Photos published in news reports Thursday showed the dead turtles
lined up in long stretches of five rows, as marine police made an
inventory of the carcasses.


The World Conservation lists the Hawksbill turtle as critically
endangered, while the Green turtle is also endangered.


Mohamad Sueb said the fisheries department would be prosecuting
the Chinese for encroaching in Malaysia's waters and poaching.


"The fisheries department is taking action, they are going to
prosecute this case," he said.


Penalties for the offences are a one million ringgit (289,813
dollar) fine for the skipper and a 100,000 fine for each of the
crew, or up to five years in jail for failure to pay, according
to police.


The arrests follow a similar incident Monday off Sabah's waters,
where marine police detained 19 Chinese nationals from Hainan
with 78 turtles, most of them dead as well.


Mohamad Sueb said police believed the men were all in the same
group of poachers, citing similarities in the two boats and their
equipment.


"We believe they are of the same group ... according to them they
are from the same place, Hainan," he said.


Turtles are hunted in Malaysia for their meat and valuable shell,
but many also die after getting entangled in fishing nets in open
seas.


China is a major importer of turtles from Asia for food and
medicinal purposes and aggressive illegal poaching in Southeast
Asian countries has seen sea turtle numbers falling.

