

Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres said on Thursday that
Israel refused to accept the revived Arab peace initiative as it
currently stands and said negotiations were needed.


"There is only one way to overcome our differences, and that is
negotiation," Peres told Israeli public radio. "It's impossible
to say: you must take what we offer you as is."


The blueprint, which was endorsed at an Arab summit on Wednesday,
offers Israel full normalisation of relations if it withdraws
from all land occupied in the 1967 war and allows the creation of
a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian refugees.


"There is no alternative to negotiations," he said. "With a
diktat neither the Palestinians, nor the Arabs nor us will
achieve a solution."


Yitzhak Herzog, welfare minister and a member of Israel's
powerful security cabinet, said: "Israel has a problem with this
initiative, notably concerning the right of return of the
Palestinians."


"It is also impossible for Israel to accept to the letter the
Arab position concerning borders," he said, but added: "The Arab
initiative constitutes a positive step as a starting point for
negotiations."


Silvan Shalom, an MP with the main right-wing opposition Likud
party, called the Arab League summit in Riyadh "deceitful."


"The Arab countries are not proposing a real peace," he said.
"The government should say a clear no to this initiative as its
acceptance will signify the end of the state of Israel."


Although Israel rejected the Arab iniative when it was first
unveiled in 2002, during the past several weeks officials have
said the plan could be a good basis for negotiations if the
clauses granting Palestinian refugees the right of return are
dropped.


According to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, there
are more than four million Palestinian refugees who live mostly
in the Palestinian territories, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Libya
-- most of them descendants of the people who fled or were forced
out during the 1948 war when the Jewish state was created.


Israel fiercely opposes allowing refugees to return to lands they
occupied prior to the 1948 war, arguing the influx would
effectively erase the Jewish character of the state.

