

Germany's coach Joachim Loew suffered his first defeat in charge,
but brushed off jeers from disgruntled fans to insist on Thursday
he was right to hand out six new caps in the 1-0 defeat to
Denmark.


Having suceeded Jurgen Klinsmann as head coach last July, Loew
has the first blot on his copy book after his inexperienced side
lost to a 81st minute goal from Danish striker Nicklas Bendtner
in Wednesday night's friendly.


German fans in Duisburg jeered and whistled their side off the
MSV-Arena pitch after a below-par performance from a vastly
inexperienced side, but their disgruntled calls fell on Loew's
deaf ears.


With eight first-choice players rested, Loew retained only three
survivors from Germany's 2-1 win over the Czech Republic five
days before and paid the price with his first defeat in nine
games, but insisted it was worth it to blood the squad's
youngsters.


Hanover goalkeeper Robert Enke, VfB Stuttgart's Roberto Hilbert
and Bayer Leverkusen's Simon Rolfes all won their first caps in
the starting eleven, while Leverkusen pair Stefan Kiessling and
Gonzalo Castro, as well as Cologne's Patrick Helmes came off the
bench to make their debut.


"We always said that we were going to use this game to give the
younger players a change and that's exactly what we did," said
Loew.


"We have got to know a bit more about the players were with us.
We played well in the first half, but we fell away in the second-
half.


"The Danes played well as a unit and deservedly won. But this
young side was only playing together for the first time today and
the game was important for the future of the squad."


Loew's acceptance of the Danish defeat is best explained by a
glance at the Group D table which shows Germany still top of the
table with a game in hand over the second-placed Czech Republic,
despite Wednesday's 1-0 win over Cyprus.


And having waited years for his first cap behind established
German goalkeepers Oliver Kahn and Jens Lehmann, Hanover's Enke
was having a solid debut until Bendtner struck.


"I have mixed feeligs," said the 29-year-old.


"I am very proud that I have got my first cap. It is a pity that
we didn't at least get the draw."


And Leverkusen forward Kiessling was delighted to get his first
cap having come off the bench, but said the jeers at the final
whistle were unfair


"It was a thrill to get my first cap, we had a very young side
and had tried to play forwards. It was a silly goal we conceeded,
but we didn't deserve the whistles at the end."

