

Australian airline Qantas ordered nine Airbus A320 planes for its
budget offshoot Jetstar Thursday, in a move analysts said was
aimed at heading off a challenge from Singapore-based Tiger
Airways.


Qantas chief executive Geoff Dixon said Jetstar would use the
aircraft, to be delivered from late this year, on domestic and
short-haul international routes.


He said Qantas would also boost the capacity of its full-service
operations in Australia by transferring four Boeing 767-300
aircraft currently used for international flights to domestic
operations.


Dixon said the increased capacity for both Jetstar and Qantas
should help the airline retain its 65 percent share of the
Australian domestic market.


He did not reveal how much the new aircraft would cost.


The announcement pushed up the price of shares in EADS, which
owns Airbus, by 2.11 percent to 22.76 euros in early Paris
trades, while the CAC 40 index of leading shares had gained 0.70
percent overall.


Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation managing director Peter Harbison
said Qantas had been stung into action by discount carrier
Tiger's plans to aggressively target the Australian market.


"War has been declared," Harbison told AFP.


"This is part of Qantas' response to the threat from Tiger,
Qantas is sending out a clear message that it will defend its
domestic market."


Tiger announced last month that it was seeking clearance from
Canberra to begin operating Down Under before the end of the
year.


The airline has helped revolutionise travel in Southeast Asia
with its low-cost offerings and said it planned to do the same in
Australia, bringing in the no- frills, ultra-cheap model
pioneered in Europe by Ryanair.


Harbison said the Australian domestic market is to set to become
a battleground involving newcomer Tiger and incumbents Qantas,
Jetstar and Virgin Blue.


"Things are going to get very interesting because the existing
players are going to have to put a dent in their profits to
respond adequately to Tiger," he said.


In late 2005, Qantas chose to buy 115 of Boeing's 787 long-haul
airliner for a massive, multi-billion dollar fleet expansion,
rather than Airbus' fuel efficient A350.


But Jetstar's existing fleet is made up of A320s and Harbison
said the airline chose to stay with Airbus when it made its
latest purchase to ensure the fleet remained homogenous.

