

Japan on Thursday stressed its commitment to market-determined
exchange rates after US senators introduced legislation seeking
to stop the Japanese government "manipulating" the yen.


"I believe that foreign exchange rates should reflect economic
fundamentals and that chaotic fluctuations in share prices and
foreign exchange rates are undesirable," said Japan's vice
finance minister Hideto Fujii.


Japan has the world's second-largest foreign exchange reserves
after China as a result of years of currency intervention by the
government to keep the yen down against the dollar and help
exporters stay competitive.


Japan's reserves hit a record high of 905.05 billion dollars in
February.


The Japanese monetary authorities have not intervened since mid-
March 2004, allowing the yen to find its own level against the
dollar.


But some critics argue that Japan's super-low interest rates are
in effect a form of currency manipulation since they ensure the
yen stays weak.


Even after a quarter point hike in February, Japan's benchmark
interest rate remains the lowest among the major economies by far
at just 0.5 percent.


Fujii indicated that the authorities had no intention for now to
intervene on the foreign exchange market.


"We have no plans to make a drastic change in the portfolio of
currencies in Japan's foreign reserves," he told reporters.


US senators introduced legislation in the Senate Wednesday
requiring Washington to work with other countries to stop Japan
from "manipulating" the yen.


In the coming weeks, another measure could be proposed seeking
tough action against China for allegedly undervaluing the yuan.


The Japan Currency Manipulation Act proposes steps to "prove that
the Japanese manipulate the yen," and would require Washington to
work with other countries to put a stop to such practices.


It is not known how much support legislators would provide to the
bill on Japan, a key ally of the United States, unlike China
which is seen by many Americans as a military and trade rival.


China also brushed aside the criticism, saying the value of the
yuan was already decided by the market.


"Both sides need to observe the principle of mutual respect...
rather than using pressure or threatening to use pressure,"
foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang told a press briefing in
Beijing.

