

The bloody attacks that have rocked Mogadishu in recent months
have been led by a mishmash of rebel groups all targeting Somali
and Ethiopian troops but for very different reasons, observers
say.


Somalia is dealing with "a complex insurgency against the TFG
(Transitional Federal Government) and the Ethiopian army,"
explained Ken Menkhaus, a political science professor at Davidson
University in the US state of North Carolina.


The armed resistance is coming from "affiliated groups, including
Islamists, clan militias, (and) warlords," he told AFP, insisting
that the groups "have nothing in common except a shared desire to
drive Ethiopia out of Mogadishu and prevent the TFG from
exercising authority."


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has been wracked by
factional bloodletting since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed
Siad Barre triggered a deadly power struggle that has scuppered
more than 14 peacemaking attempts.


In the three months since Ethiopian-Somali troops ousted an
Islamist movement from south and central Somalia thousands of
people have fled the spiraling violence and about 100, mainly
civilians, have died.


The Islamists, who initially received the backing from many clans
tired of the fighting, managed to chase the warlords out of
Mogadishu in mid-2006 and brought a brief calm to the capital.


Their push into the centre of Somalia, along with their threats
against neighbouring Ethiopia, prompted an Ethiopian invasion
with the backing of the United States, which has accused the
Islamic rebels of harbouring Al-Qaeda members.


Since the ouster of the Islamists, the warlords have returned to
Mogadishu.


The Hawiye clan, which has largely controlled the Somali capital
since 1991, joined the Islamist onslaught against the Ethiopians
and the Somali government, which is dominated by rival Darod clan
of Siad Barre.


Chiefs of other clans that claim to be under-represented in the
government have also joined the rebellion.


Despite the different origins of the insurgents, the rebellion
appears to be well organised and centrally structured, according
to Francois Grignon, the head of the International Crisis Group
(ICG)'s Central African programme.


"The very nature of the (recent) fighting opens to the idea that
we are dealing with an insurgency with a single command," Grignon
told AFP.


"Last week there were different attacks on the Ethiopians,
especially using remote-controlled explosives, leading one to
believe there is coordination. This is no longer about (rockets)
falling haphazardly," he added.


But while the insurgents may be fighting the same enemy, Menkhaus
insisted that "they have different interests."


"The Islamists are not interested in seeing the TFG survive. They
want to lead a new political process," he said, pointing out that
the clans in Mogadishu on the other hand "might agree on a
government of unity if they are given a very good position."


According to Jeremiah Owiti, an analyst with the Centre of
Independent Research in Nairobi, the clans and the warlords are
mainly interested in gaining power in order to make money.


"They have a commercial motive: returning (to power) to get back
taxes," he told AFP.


Last Friday the Hawiye clan said it had reached a ceasefire
agreement with the Ethiopian army, proving that it has been
involved in the fighting.


And on Monday the Somali government said it was prepared to
negotiate with the clan, which then liberated 18 Somali soldiers
it had taken prisoner.


Abderizak Adam Hassan, the chief of staff of Somalia's President
Abdellahi Yusuf Ahmed, said the government was "negotiating with
everyone."


"Yesterday (Tuesday) we met with all the warlords to inform them
of what we're doing," he said, adding: "We don't have any problem
with them."


As far as the clans were concerned Hassan said some of their
leaders had met with government officials and the Ethiopians. He
said the government was not against the clans, just "those
Islamists who are bombarding the city."


But while "the Hawiye clan has demonstrated they have the
capacities to control the fighting," they probably won't be able
to control the "hard Islamists," Menkhaus warned, cautioning that
even if the government and the Hawiye reach a peace accord the
violence probably would continue.

