

Hopes grew Thursday that a deal on a free trade agreement between
South Korea and the United States could be reached by a weekend
deadline.


Disputes over farm trade are still the biggest obstacle to an
agreement which, according to some studies, could increase two-
way trade by 20 percent over last year's 74 billion dollar
figure.


But South Korean analysts and officials are confident that talks
can be concluded this week.


"The two countries are showing a strong will to strike a deal. So
I believe the deal will be done," Lee Kyung-Tae, head of the
Korea Institute for International Economic Policy, a state think-
tank, told a radio program.


A trade official told AFP on condition of anonymity: "There are
growing hopes of a deal, although I cannot say definitely it will
be concluded by the deadline."


Yonhap news agency said an announcement may come early Saturday.


The deadline for agreement is 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the
last working day of the week in Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while US President George W. Bush
still has authority to "fast- track" trade legislation.


"I think both sides can narrow differences and find common
ground," South Korea's Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-
Seok told reporters late Wednesday.


"Both sides clearly share a view that a deal should be reached in
time," he said after a separate meeting with his US agricultural
negotiating partner Richard Crowder.


Min has said that talks with Crowder were to wind up Thursday
morning, with the results forwarded to the delegation chiefs --
South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong and Deputy US Trade
Representative Karan Bhatia.


Yonhap said an outline "package deal" was expected to be
completed by Thursday, on the basis of which Kim and Bhatia would
attempt a "give-and-take" session linking fewer than 10
outstanding issues.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, who has pushed hard for a deal despite
mass street protests and opposition from political allies, hinted
there would be a compromise.


A deal "is supposed to be mutually satisfactory. Otherwise, the
deal can't be concluded," he said Wednesday evening during a
visit to Qatar.


Roh said he will decide whether to sign the deal after he returns
home Friday. "As head of state, I myself will make the final
decision."


South Korea rose from post-war poverty to become the world's 11th
largest economy by protecting key industries, but now faces
growing Chinese competition.


Its industries and service sector will be reinvigorated by the
competition which a free trade deal would bring, Roh believes.


"South Korea has never been given serious external shocks due to
the market opening. The pace of South Korea's opening has been
moderate thus far," he said in Qatar.


South Korea says the talks could fail if the US presses it
further to open up the local rice market, while the US side wants
more access for its lucrative beef exports.


Seoul last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over fears of mad
cow disease and agreed to accept US boneless beef. But it then
rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments in
what the US called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.


The US wants Korea to cut its 40 percent tariff on beef as well
as tariffs on other farm goods. The auto trade in which South
Korea runs a huge surplus, textiles, anti-dumping remedies and
pharmaceuticals are also among the main issues.


Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs. On
Wednesday nearly 2,000 people attended a candlelight vigil in
central Seoul.

