

The UN's World Food Programme urged international donors Thursday
not to link desperately needed food aid for North Koreans to the
policies of the nuclear- armed communist state.


"What we might regret is if political factors start influencing
the possible support to those in the field who don't do
politics," said Jean-Pierre DeMargerie, the WFP country director
in North Korea.


"A child doesn't do politics. So let's give that child a chance."


DeMargerie said in 2006 -- the year the North tested missiles and
a nuclear bomb -- China had halved its food shipments to the
North and South Korea had suspended them altogether.


"That's why there was such a huge food deficit in 2006 and this
is potentially the situation we're looking at in 2007."


DeMargerie was speaking at a press conference before meeting
government officials and legislators. He did not say whether he
would press Seoul to resume its bilateral food aid.


The South suspended its regular annual shipments of 500,000 tons
of rice and 300,000 tons of fertiliser after the missile tests
last July.


It also suspended up to 100,000 tons which it previously given
through the WFP, but had indicated that a donation of 50,000 tons
would be forthcoming soon, DeMargerie said.


Seoul has resumed fertiliser shipments following progress at six-
party nuclear disarmament talks and has agreed in principle to
resume food aid. But officials have indicated that a resumption
may be tied to progress on scrapping the North's nuclear
programmes.


Senior North Korean officials, in an about-face, have accepted UN
estimates that their country faces a shortfall of one million
tons of food and have said they want increased assistance from
the WFP.


The UN body, which currently can only feed 700,000 of the 1.9
million most vulnerable people, said it urgently needed
contributions from donors.


"We are losing ground in the struggle against hunger. It is time
for donors to respond," DeMargerie said.


Despite steady improvements since the famine of the mid to late
1990s, "having enough to eat is still a daily struggle for one-
third to one-half of all North Koreans," the WFP said in a
statement.


The most recent survey in 2004 found that 37 percent of young
children are chronically malnourished and one-third of mothers
are both malnourished and anaemic, it said.


DeMargerie said satisfaction at progress in the six-party talks
"has not translated into tangible support to the hungry poor" in
North Korea.


"In the meantime people will go hungry in the DPRK (North Korea).
They will go hungry very soon. The lean season starts in April,"
he said.


"We predict that the lean season this year will be harsher and
longer than in previous years."

