

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene says his team will bounce
back from their dramatic one-wicket World Cup Super Eights defeat
against South Africa at the Guyana National Stadium Wednesday.


Jayawardene said the fact that his team came so close to winning
after a poor batting performance showed the ability and the
fighting spirit of his players.


"We dont give up. From any situation we believe we can win
matches," he said.


Looking ahead to Sunday's match against hosts West Indies at the
same venue, Jayawardene said: "We are a very professional unit
and we know exactly where we went wrong. The guys will make sure
that we come back very strong on Sunday."


For the Sri Lankans it will be a second opportunity to take
advantage of conditions which Jayawardene admitted were akin to
those found in their native country, with a slow pitch providing
plenty of help for the spin bowlers, spearheaded by Muttiah
Muralitharan.


It was Muralitharan who kept Sri Lanka in with a slight chance
Wednesday, bowling superbly to take three for 34 before
unorthodox fast bowler Lasith Malinga gave them an unexpected
sight of victory by becoming the first bowler to take four
wickets in four balls in a one-day international.


From needing only four runs with five wickets in hand, South
Africa found themselves with their last pair at the crease and
three still needed. A four by Robin Peterson settled South
Africa's nerves.


Jayawardene said Malinga, who finished with four for 54, could be
a big force in the World Cup.


"He usually picks up a few early wickets and he can be a handful
for the lower middle order and the tailenders. I can use him at
any stage. He's something special that we have in this team.


Jayawardene says there is no special action needed to spruce up
the batting which failed to click on Wednesday after he had won
the toss and elected to bat in the first international match to
be played at the new stadium at Providence on the outskirts of
the capital Georgetown.


"We batted really well in the first three games we played here
(in the World Cup)," said the captain whose side made it through
from the first dound with a perfect three wins out of three.


South Africa captain Graeme Smith endorsed Jayawardene's view of
Sri Lanka's prospects.


"Sri Lanka in these conditions are going to be a tough team to
beat," he said.

