

In a chaotic Manila slum, sympathy abounded Thursday for the
benefactor turned hostage-taker who took a busload of children at
gunpoint to highlight the crushing poverty that blights this
area.


Pregnant housewife Mary Jane dela Cruz had nothing but praise for
Armando Ducat, who owns the now-padlocked Musmos Daycare Center
whose charges he held captive in a 10-hour standoff with police.


A few feet away her son Jeramae played cards with dozens of other
children. In a fresh Musmos Daycare uniform and an ID, he appears
to have forgotten his ordeal and flashed an innocent smile, his
brown, decaying teeth and bony frame indications of a hard life.


"He is a good person," dela Cruz, 32, said of Ducat. "I don't
personally know his background, but he showed up here two years
ago, and lived among us."


"He has been very kind to us. He put up this school. Dozens of
pre-schoolers have finished here, learned their ABC's here," she
said.


"We will appeal that he be released."


Dela Cruz is pregnant with her eighth child, and says she does
not know how to feed everyone. "God will find a way," she said.
"But I want my children to at least finish high school."


The day centre was a beacon of hope at the Parola compound, a
labyrinth of dark, musky alleys and cardboard and tin houses
where Ducat had hoped to mould grimy children into future
leaders, or at least college-educated workers.


Nobody has done a proper census here, but district leaders
estimate there are some 150,000 residents, with as many as 10
people crammed into makeshift hovels.


Ducat, from accounts here a quiet, respected businessman, held 32
children and two teachers hostage Wednesday on board a school
bus.


Armed with at least one grenade and guns, Ducat parked the bus
symbolically near Manila city hall, and demanded free housing and
education for 145 of his wards, including those he held hostage.


He had promised them a field trip, buying them toy guns and
enough food for two days. Parents said Ducat was a friend,
someone they trusted.


He released the hostages after he was allowed on national and
international radio and television to deliver a rambling
discourse on poverty, dirty politics and how the public should
join hands in fighting corruption.


President Gloria Arroyo ordered a speedy prosecution, calling it
a "bizarre drama" that would weigh heavily on the nation's image.


But it also was a reflection of government failure to address
urban blight, with thousands of Filipinos streaming into Manila's
slums every year in hopes of landing jobs.


With some 40 percent of the estimated 87 million population
living on less than two dollars a day, many drift to the cities
and end up living in squalid, shanty-towns.


Here in Parola, dozens of shoeless, semi-naked children played
under the shade of an open-air gymnasium. Also built by Ducat, it
offers the only space where everyone can socialize -- vendors
hawking rice cakes, jobless fathers drinking gin, bleary-eyed
grandmothers smoking boredom away.


Mothers cook in alleyways, using blackened pots and charcoal, and
families eat using discarded tupperware and their bare hands.


A stench of rotting fish and decay wafts from the alleyways. The
heat is oppressive.


"This is a social time bomb," said Elmer Calleja, one of Ducat's
volunteer teachers. "Look at them, tell me if you see hope in
this surrounding."


Calleja, 30, has lived here all his life and with the help of
relatives and perseverance managed to finish college, earning a
degree in education.


He said Ducat's Musmos Daycare Center has taught more than 200
children since it was built in 2005. Now, its benefactor gone,
nobody is sure where to get the funds before the school season
begins in June.


"We had no indication he would do what he did. Mr. Ducat has been
very helpful to us, and we all want him freed. Maybe he wanted to
be aggressive and show our sad plight here," he said.


Gemma Arroyo, 28, whose daughter Angelica, six, was also among
those held hostage, said she would help organise a petition so
Ducat will not be charged and prosecuted.


"He was only helping. I am not mad about what he did. We knew he
wasn't going to hurt the child. Of course at first we were
afraid, but after several hours in the bus, it was clear he only
wanted to talk," she said.


"Sometimes, you need to be brave to be heard," she said. "Is it
so bad to help the poor?"

