

Heavy fighting broke out in Mogadishu Thursday between Ethiopian
troops and insurgents, killing at least 10 civilians and smashing
a shaky six-day old ceasefire.


Ethiopian tanks were met with insurgent fire as they rolled into
southern neighbourhoods, crushing hopes that a truce with the
Hawiye clan, which has largely controlled the Somali capital
since 1991, could be maintained.


There has been sporadic fighting since the deal between the
Ethiopians, backing Somali government forces, and Hawiye elders
six days ago, but Thursday's clashes returned the capital to
scenes of war.


At least 10 civilians were killed in crossfire in southern
neighbourhoods of Mogadishu, witnesses said.


An AFP correspondent saw two dead civilians in the fighting in
the Ali Kamin neighbourhood, and witnesses said three others had
died.


"I have seen two people killed by stray bullets and I have also
seen three others wounded. I can see the Ethiopian tanks taking
positions in our neighbourhood, in front of my house," said
resident Mohamed Ali Hassan.


"I have seen a neighbour killed by stray bullets," said Hawo
Moalil. "My younger daughter was wounded by a stray bullet."


Residents of the southern Gupta neighbourhood reported five
others killed, after artillery hit a garage.


"We don't know where the fire was coming from, maybe it was a
mortar or an artillery shell. Five people were killed, three of
them in the garage and two others were outside," said Ahmed
Hassan Madobe.


He said that continued fighting prevented residents from
collecting the bodies, and that six people had been wounded.


"The place was full of smoke after a big bang. Three people were
killed inside the garage and two were in a compound next to the
garage," said another resident, Asha Abdullahi.


She said nine people had been wounded and three were in a
criticial condition.


Ethiopian tanks rolled into southern neighbourhoods as fighting
continued early Thursday, after deploying nearby late on
Wednesday.


Last Friday's ceasefire deal came after some of the deadliest
fighting since the government and its Ethiopian allies drove out
powerful Islamists from southern and central Somalia three months
ago.


Hawiye elders have in recent days been holding talks with
Ethiopians and Somali government officials to try to maintain the
ceasefire.


The powerful Hawiye clan on Monday released 18 government forces
captured during bloody clashes in which 24 people died last week.


Meanwhile, the government has announced a crackdown on suspected
Islamist insurgent fighters in a bid to bring calm to the capital
ahead of a national reconciliation conference set to start mid-
April.


A small force of some 1,500 Ugandan African Union troops is
currently deploying at strategic points around Mogadishu.


The AU troops plan to take over from Ethiopian forces to allow
them to withdraw but have yet to make their mark in the volatile
Somali capital.


Dozens of people have died and thousands of residents have fled
Mogadishu since the start of the year.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

