

Ethiopian helicopters fired missiles on southern Mogadishu on
Thursday as heavy fighting across the Somali capital left 10
people dead in an offensive against insurgent fighters.


Ethiopian troops propping up the Somali government spearheaded
the push into the southern part of Mogadishu, deploying tanks in
neighbourhoods that have witnessed the most intense insurgent
activity in recent months.


An AFP correspondent saw the helicopters fire missiles near the
Ethiopian forces' base in the former Somali defence ministry
headquarters -- another common target for insurgent attacks.


"This morning, the Ethiopians launched an operation in the
southern part of the city," said an officer from African Union
peacekeeping troops also deployed in Mogadishu, but not involved
in the offensive.


"For us, our main concern is civilian casualties," he said.


At least 10 civilians were killed in fighting on Thursday which
also shattered a shaky six-day ceasefire with the powerful Hawiye
clan, which has largely controlled the Somali capital since 1991.


The ceasefire had been agreed after some of the deadliest
fighting since the government and its Ethiopian allies drove out
powerful Islamists from southern and central Somalia three months
ago.


There had been sporadic clashes since the deal was struck last
Friday but the scale of Thursday's violence made it clear that
the truce had finally been thrown out of the window.


Witnesses said the civilians were killed after being caught in
the crossfire between the Ethiopian soldiers and insurgent
fighters.


"I have seen two people killed by stray bullets and I have also
seen three others wounded. I can see the Ethiopian tanks taking
positions in our neighbourhood, in front of my house," said
resident Mohamed Ali Hassan.


The government has announced a crackdown on Islamist insurgent
fighters in a bid to bring calm to the capital ahead of a
national reconciliation conference set to start mid-April.


A small force of some 1,500 Ugandan African Union troops is
currently deploying at strategic points around Mogadishu.


The AU troops plan to take over from Ethiopian forces to allow
them to withdraw but have yet to make their mark in the volatile
Somali capital.


Dozens of people have died and thousands of residents have fled
Mogadishu since the start of the year.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

