

Japan and China resumed talks Thursday on the development of
bitterly disputed gas fields after a break of nine months, but
differences remained, officials said.


The lucrative gas fields in the East China Sea are one of a
series of issues that have strained ties between Japan and China,
two of the world's biggest energy importers.


The two countries have been working to repair relations, with
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao set to pay a rare visit to Tokyo next
month.


Kenichiro Sasae, head of the Japanese foreign ministry's Asian
and Oceanian Affairs Bureau, opened the talks on the gas fields
Thursday with his Chinese counterpart Hu Zhengyue, a Japanese
foreign ministry official said.


"The guiding spirit of the talks is to generate results that show
a strategic win-win relationship between Japan and China," said
Tomohiko Taniguchi, the deputy press secretary of the foreign
ministry, using a phrase Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has repeatedly
stated on China.


But Taniguchi added: "There still exists a degree of difference
between the two sides about how to define the area for the
possible joint development."


"We don't know if the talks end Thursday or continue on Friday at
this point," he said.


At the last round held in Beijing in July last year, the two
sides agreed to form a panel of experts to break the deadlock in
the drawn-out negotiations, which started in 2004.


Japan and China have long disputed their sea border and Beijing
insists it has the right to explore for oil and gas along its
continental shelf in the East China Sea.


But Japan says some of the gas fields lie too close to its
exclusive economic zone -- a delineation not recognised by China
-- and fears Beijing might siphon off resources from an area
Japan claims as its own.


Tensions escalated between the two countries last year after
Japan said it had spotted flames indicating China had started
production close to the area where Japan claims development
rights. China began test-drilling in 2003.

