

Japanese brewer Sapporo Holdings won support from its
shareholders Thursday for proposed anti-takeover defences as it
tries to fend off a buy-out attempt by US hedge fund Steel
Partners.


About two-thirds of shareholders in Japan's third largest brewer
voted for the proposed 'poison-pill' measures at an annual
meeting in Tokyo, the company said.


The result was a blow to Steel Partners Japan Strategic Fund,
Sapporo's top shareholder which had urged investors to vote down
the proposal as it seeks a controlling stake in the brewer.


Sapporo Holdings President Takao Murakami said the outcome showed
his company still enjoyed the support of shareholders.


"We would like to do our best to boost our corporate value by
forming a united front among members of our group," he told
reporters after the meeting, which also approved his presidency
for its business year through December.


He declined to comment on what the company would do if Steel
Partners launched a hostile takeover bid for the business.


The hedge fund, which hopes to raise its 18 percent stake in
Sapporo to 66.6 percent, said in a statement that it was
"disappointed" at the outcome.


It said the anti-takeover defences were "not in the best
interests of the stakeholders of the company as a whole and will
adversely impact shareholder value."


A spokeswoman for the fund said it had not yet decided its next
move.


The defence proposal will enable the Sapporo board to veto
takeover bids by allowing its management to issue new shares to
dilute the stake of a bidder, if it opposes the move.


Sapporo is Japan's third-ranked brewer, selling under the Sapporo
and Yebisu labels. Last year it acquired a controlling stake in
Canada's Sleeman Breweries through a friendly takeover.


Steel Partners was at the centre of a hostile takeover attempt
last year for Japanese noodle maker Myojo Foods, which eventually
evaded the bid thanks to a "white knight" offer from industry
giant Nissin Food Products.


Foreign hostile takeover bids are still rare in Japan and seen as
an example of a more ruthless form of Western capitalism.

