

India has boosted military security along its southern coast
after Sri Lanka's Tamil Tiger rebels staged their  first air
attack on a Colombo military base, officials said.


The measures include increased navy patrols in the narrow strip
of sea dividing India and Sri Lanka and the installation of radar
units in a coastal village that is the nearest point to Sri
Lanka's embattled northern region.


"We've taken proactive measures and stepped up our vigil...
increased our numbers on guard and intensified patrols,"
Commandant Subrato Mukherjee said late Wednesday.


The moves come after Tamil Tiger rebels staged their first air
raid Monday, bombing Sri Lanka's main military base in a night-
time mission that closed the international airport and killed at
least three Sri Lankan air force men.


Security experts have said gaps exist in India's air surveillance
system and the acquisition of air capability by Tamil rebels was
a matter of "deep concern."


The radar in the village of Sundaramudaiyan was linked to an air
defence system fitted with an anti-aircraft gun to intercept any
enemy aircraft violating Indian airspace, said an Indian defence
official who did not wish to be named.


The Tigers were allegedly aided by India in the mid-1980s. But
New Delhi outlawed the rebels after they were held responsible
for the assassination of former Indian premier Rajiv Gandhi in
1991.


Gandhi had ordered Indian troops to fight the Tigers who had
refused to lay down arms in line with a 1987 Indo-Sri Lanka peace
pact.


Since India's disastrous deployment of troops which ended in
March 1990 following the loss of at least 1,200 Indian soldiers
at the hands of the Tigers, New Delhi has steered clear of Sri
Lanka's conflict.


But there have been growing calls by Sri Lanka's government for
India to take a more active role amid an escalation in the
conflict over the past year following the unravelling of a
Norwegian-brokered 2002 ceasefire deal.


Sri Lanka has called on India to recognise that the "LTTE is a
threat to regional security."

