

Some 300 US blacks who flew fighters over Europe in World War II
as the Tuskegee Airmen are to be honored by Congress Thursday
with one of the country's highest decorations, six decades after
the war's end.


The first African Americans to be permitted to fly in the war
will be presented as a group with the Congressional Gold Medal,
Congress's foremost honor for civilians, recognizing them for one
of the war's most distinguished records in air combat.


Formed in 1941 in Tuskegee, Alabama, as an exclusively black unit
of the US Army Air Corps, the Tuskegee Airmen provided 450 pilots
to the war, where they flew over Germany, France, Italy and
Northern Africa escorting allied bombers to their targets.


Sixty-six airmen died in combat, but in a little matched record
for the war, nearly all of the bombers they protected got
through.


"Their mission was to escort the bombers and their reputation was
that they were very good at it," said Denis Mills, vice president
of the Tuskegee Airmen Inc., an organization to honor and
remember the group.


"There were very few bombers lost," he recalled to AFP.


Also known as the "Red Tail Angels" because their propellers and
tails were painted red, the Tuskegee pilots overcame widespread
racial prejudice and segregation in US society to become one of
the most respected units in the European air war.


Before they were formed, officially as the the 332d Fighter Group
of the Army Air Corps, blacks were not allowed to fly aircraft in
the US military.


Once given the chance, they struggled not only to prove
themselves as pilots but also as equals in the segregated
military.


"It was very challenging," said Mills.


"It's one thing to be able to be a pilot in wartime, when you are
fighting two fronts: you are fighting the enemy on one hand and
your own country is against you, hoping to see you fail."


"It makes it all the more outstanding... It's a story of
overcoming that kind of adversity."


The Congressional Gold Medal recognizes "their sacrifices and
remarkable combat record during the war and during this racial
adversity," Mills said.


It has been bestowed upon national heroes like first president
George Washington, anti-segregation icon Rosa Parks, Mother
Teresa, former secretary of state Colin Powell and actor John
Wayne.


Most of the roughly 385 surviving Tuskegee airmen -- a total of
994 black pilots were trained for the unit -- are in their 80s,
and maybe 300 will attend the ceremony Thursday.


"This is their last hurrah, the last big recognition for them.
They are very excited about it. There is not a single Tuskegee
Airman who didn't want to come and be a part of this," Mills
said.


The unit's record has long been a source of dispute. Legend had
it after the war that Tuskegee pilots never lost a single one of
the bombers they were escorting to their targets.


But Mills denied the group ever made such a claim.


"It was never the Tuskegee who claimed that no bombers were lost
under their command.


"Within a couple of months all the records will be evaluated and
whatever is found, it won't detract from their overall record."


The unit lasted through the war and after, until president Harry
Truman in 1948 ordered the integration of the US military and
they were mixed into other units.


While many individuals earned combat decorations during the war,
honor for the group as a whole has been lagging.


In 1995 they were featured in the movie "The Tuskegee Airmen,"
which starred Laurence Fishburne and Cuba Gooding Jr.

