

Thailand, Indonesia and Vietnam will start trials to see if a
double dose of the drug Tamiflu can save more lives of people
infected with the deadly H5N1 bird flu virus, an official said
Thursday.


The three nations have suffered some two thirds of the world's
bird flu deaths, putting them on the front line of the battle
against the virus that first emerged in 2003.


They will each enlist some 100 patients for the clinical trials
set to begin in April or May, said Tawee Chotpityasunondh, head
of reserach at Queen Sirikit National Institute of Child Health
in Bangkok.


"There is evidence that death rates of guinea pigs decreased
after giving them a bigger dose of Tamiflu, and medical experts
are planning for the clinical trial" in humans, said Tawee.


"The trial will be strictly supervised by experts," he said,
adding the three Southeast Asian nations would cooperate and
share data on the clinical trial.


The United States, which has reported no bird flu cases, will
also participate in the test by enlisting patients with severe
seasonal flu, Tawee said.


Under standard treatment, patients with the H5N1 bird flu virus
receive two tablets of Tamiflu per day for five days, the Thai
doctor said. In the trial, they would receive twice that amount.


The trial comes amid warnings from Japan and South Korea on
Tamiflu, following reports of abnormal behaviour by patients,
including four deaths in Japan.


Japan's health ministry has said there is no clear evidence of a
causal link between Tamiflu and the abnormal behaviours, but the
government said this month it would seek expert opinion to review
possible cases in the past.


The death rate from bird flu in Thailand is 68 percent, as the
kingdom has reported 25 human bird flu cases, 17 of them fatal.


Indonesia, worst hit by the disease, has 69 bird flu deaths out
of 89 cases. The government said Thursday two more people had
died after testing positive for bird flu.


If confirmed, Indonoesia's fatalities from the avian flu virus
would rise to 71, the world's highest.


In Vietnam, 42 people have been killed by the H5N1 strain, but
Hanoi has reported no new human cases since November 2005.

