

Britain on Thursday maintained demands that Iran give access to
15 detained naval personnel amid a nervous wait to see if Iran
would make good on a promise to free the only woman captive.


There was also widespread anger at television images of the 15
shown by Iranian television and an interview with the woman, Faye
Turney, in which she admitted the Britons had trespassed into
Iranian waters.


"We await further details from the Iranian government on their
undertaking to act on our request for consular access to the
Royal Navy personnel," a Foreign Office spokesman told AFP.


"We continue to press strongly for their immediate release."


Britain was forced into a waiting game a day after it went on the
offensive over the crisis after attempts at quiet diplomacy since
the sailors were taken Friday.


It published what it said was clear evidence that the naval
personnel were "ambushed" in Iraqi waters, while Iran maintains
they were in its territory.


The sailors were shown on Iranian television on Wednesday night.
Turney, the only woman among the sailors and marines, said the
Britons had strayed into Iranian waters -- although the Foreign
Office voiced concern she had been coerced.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was "very concerned"
about the pictures and "any indication of pressure on or coercion
of our personnel".


Body language expert Robert Phipps said her facial expressions
indicated she was under pressure and nervous.


"The smile she gave was a fixed smile, showing no teeth, it
vanished as quickly as it appeared, showing it wasn't genuine,"
he said. "Certainly the way she was talking it was like she had
been told what to say."


Defence analyst Paul Beaver said it was likely Turney had been
instructed to say the sailors had strayed into Iranian waters.


He said: "She's a professional sailor doing precisely all she can
to hasten her release and that of her colleagues. It's what I
would expect her to do.


"I don't think anybody is really going to believe what she has
said."


Richard Dalton, Britain's ambassador to Iran from 2002 to 2006,
cautioned that Prime Minister Tony Blair's talk of ratcheting up
the pressure on Tehran may not speed up securing their release.


He said it was time to stand back and see whether international
pressure could produce results.


"I can't see an easy way out and indeed the crisis may
intensify," he told BBC radio.


"One thing is certain which is that heating the political climate
in the UK is not going to help."


"Escalating too soon can complicate matters, won't help the
captives.


"We need to proceed deliberately and calmly.


"Exactly how the issue arose is not of greatest importance now,
it's how to get out of it.


"We do have to find a political way out and that may have to
involve some form of face-saving for Iran."


British newspapers were largely supportive of the government's
diplomatic actions.


"It is hard to fault the government's approach," The
Independent's editorial read.


The Times said London's robustness "may have convinced those who
hold sway in Tehran that a prolonged hostage crisis would do more
damage to Iran than it would inflict on Britain."


The Guardian said Iran's behaviour in the row proved it should
not be allowed to make a nuclear bomb.


Menzies Campbell, the leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats,
warned that Iran could be deliberately trying to divert attention
from its controversial nuclear programme.

