

The chief minister of revolt-hit Indian Kashmir vowed Thursday to
wield a "sharp sword" against Islamic militants while pledging to
spare civilians from the crackdown.


"Security forces have been advised to deal with the menace of
militancy with much fervour and determination," Ghulam Nabi Azad
said in a statement.


"I myself will prove a sharp sword against militants and shall be
soft towards innocent people," the Congress party official said
in a statement.


His comments come amid demands from Congress' main political ally
in Kashmir for a drastic cut in troop levels in the Himalayan
region, which is held in part by India and Pakistan but claimed
in full by both.


India's main opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and other Hindu
political groups, however, have been accusing Azad of going soft
on battling the 17-year-old insurgency.


Authorities in Indian Kashmir are also probing five cases where
innocent civilians were detained, killed and passed off as
"wanted" Islamic militants by security forces.


Some eight police officers have been arrested and are facing
charges on murder case.


Azad, however, said that action against offenders in the security
forces should not be seen by militants as a concession.


"The action against security officials on account of human right
violations should not be deemed as any leniency towards
militants," he said, insisting that New Delhi was determined to
"eliminate the menace of militancy."


"The action of any security force personnel involved in any human
rights violation shall not be tolerated," he said.


Mufti Mohammed Sayeed's regional People's Democratic Party (PDP),
a key partner of Kashmir's Azad-run administration, has
threatened to withdraw its support if New Delhi rejected its
demands for troop cuts by mid-year.


Although India has consistently refused to scale down troop
numbers in Kashmir, Azad stressed that during the last 17 months
in power he has pulled-out soldiers posted in 92 private houses,
27 government buildings, 24 hotels and nine orchards.


"The process will continue," he said.


The insurgency began in 1989 and has claimed more than 42,000
lives, according to official figures.

