

Iraq's government admitted on Thursday that policemen were behind
the vengeful slaughter of 70 Sunni Arabs in a northern town,
heightening concern about its complicity in sectarian killings.


Around 13 policemen have been arrested in connection with
Tuesday's killing spree in Tal Afar, a mixed Sunni-Shiite town in
northern Iraq that has been devastated by the nation's worst bout
of sectarian violence in months.


Gunmen, at least some of whom survivors charged wore police
uniforms, went on a bloody rampage through the Sunni district of
Al-Wahada just hours after a presumed Sunni suicide bomber blew
up a truck in a crowded Shiite district.


Survivors told harrowing tales of gunmen dragging men out of
their homes, handcuffing and blindfolding their victims, before
spraying gunfire at random leaving dead pensioners, fathers, sons
and teenagers in their wake.


"They broke into our house wearing both police uniforms and plain
clothes. They killed my husband and killed by son. Then they
sprayed me with bullets. I was shot in the leg," Umm Abdul Sattar
told AFP from hospital.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has ordered a full investigation
into the shootings and Interior Minister Jawad Bolani confirmed
Wednesday that the perpetrators were policemen, of whom an
overwhelming majority are Shiites.


"We will take legal action against a group of them after the
prime minister ordered an investigation," Bolani, an independent
Shiite in Maliki's Shiite- dominated government, told Iraqiya
television.


An Iraqi army source speaking on condition of anonymity said 13
policemen have been detained for the mass killings. A man who
identified himself as a colonel in the Tal Afar operations said
12 to 13 police had been arrested.


Local doctors and army officers confirmed that 70 Sunni men were
shot dead with a bullet in the head. The said another 40 people
were missing and a further 30 -- mostly women -- wounded.


The truck bomb, diguised as a vehicle bringing flour to people
after a week of food shortages, left 85 people dead and a 183
wounded in explosions that ripped apart flesh and buildings.


Tuesday's bombings and shootings were the worst bout of sectarian
violence in the country since at least 202 people were killed on
November 23 in a string of car bombings in the capital's Shiite
district of Sadr City.


Iraq's leading Sunni religious organisation accused government
security forces of dirtying themselves with sectarian violence,
pointing the finger at the defence and interior ministries
appointed by Maliki to probe the killings.


"A force from the interior ministry's sectarian militia committed
a new communal massacre against innocent civilians," said the
Muslim Scholars Association, which has links to Sunni insurgent
groups, in Baghdad.


"We have warned about the nexus between the militia and
government forces of the interior and defence ministries," it
added.


Two lorries crammed with the bodies of more than 50 of the
shooting victims were moved to a hospital in Mosul, the regional
capital, along with two ambulances ferrying women wounded in the
rampage, doctors and an AFP journalist said.


A doctor travelling in the convoy said the corpses were shipped
to Mosul to get death certificates, accusing the Shiite-dominated
hospital authorities in Tal Afar of refusing to provide adequate
certification.


"All those killed and wounded are Sunnis. The incident was a
reprisal after targeting a Shiite region," said Doctor Dhafar
Mohammed, from Tal Afar Hospital who transported the lorries to
Mosul.


On Thursday, the dead were driven from Mosul for burial at a
cemetery in the countryside as doctors hinted the Shiite
authorities in Tal Afar would bar the corpses access, and were
seen off by several hundred mourners wailing in grief.


Back in Tal Afar, dozens of residents demonstrated overnight for
the release of the detained policemen, said a source in the local
operations room.


Over the past four years, tens of thousands of people have been
killed in the insurgent and sectarian violence, most of them in
Baghdad, triggering Washington to launch a last-ditch security
crackdown last month.


The Tal Afar attacks are now raising concern that sectarian
unrest is spreading further afield and made a mockery of comments
from US President George W. Bush in 2006 that the town was a
beacon of hope for the future.


In other attacks on Thursday at least 12 people were killed.

