

Arab leaders have formally relaunched a five-year-old blueprint
for peace in the Middle East, but Israel rejected the plan as it
stands, saying on Thursday that it needs negotiation.


The heads of state, on the first day of their two-day summit in
Riyadh on Wednesday, adopted a resolution reaffirming their
commitment to the Saudi- inspired plan.


The proposal offers Israel peace and normal ties if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 war, allows the creation of a
Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian refugees.


The heads of state reaffirmed the "commitment of all Arab states
to the Arab peace initiative as approved at the Beirut summit in
2002 in all its elements."


They also reaffirmed "their call to the government of Israel and
all Israelis to accept the Arab peace initiative and seize the
opportunity to resume the process of direct and serious
negotiations on all tracks."


On Thursday, however, Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres
rejected the initiative as it currently stands and said
negotiations were needed.


"There is only one way to overcome our differences, and that is
negotiation," Peres told Israeli public radio. "It's impossible
to say: you must take what we offer you as is."


"With a diktat neither the Palestinians, nor the Arabs nor us
will achieve a solution," he added.


Israel rejected the proposal when it was first made, but its
leaders have recently spoken of it as a starting point for talks.


The obstacle is the insistence on the right of return of those
Palestinians who fled or were driven from their homes during the
violence that surrounded the creation of Israel in 1948, and of
their descendants.


According to the United Nations, there are now more than four
million Palestinian refugees, living mostly in the Palestinian
territories, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Libya.


Israel fiercely opposes allowing their return, arguing that the
influx would effectively erase the Jewish character of the state.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had appealed to Arab
states to "begin reaching out to Israel" by building on the 2002
plan.


However, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal warned in
an interview with a British newspaper that Israel should not
expect any further diplomatic overtures.


"If Israel refuses (the plan), that means it doesn't want peace
and it places everything back in the hands of fate. They will be
putting their future not in the hands of the peacemakers but in
the hands of the lords of war."


Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas warned Israel on Tuesday: "If
this initiative is destroyed, I do not believe that a better
chance for peace will present itself in the near future."


While the Middle East peace plan has been the main focus of
discussions, the crisis in Iraq was also highlighted at the
summit, with Saudi King Abdullah making a strident attack on what
he called the "illegitimate foreign occupation" of the country.


A White House spokesman swiftly responded with a rare rebuff of
the close US ally.


"The United States is in Iraq at the request of the Iraqis and
under a United Nations mandate. Any suggestion to the contrary is
wrong," said National Security Council spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


Several world figures, including UN chief Ban Ki-moon and EU
foreign policy envoy Javier Solana, attended the opening session
in Riyadh.


Only Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi has boycotted the summit.


Despite strong criticism from Iraq's Kurdish foreign minister
Hoshyar Zebari of what he called "Arab diktat", the heads of
state agreed to call for amendments to the Iraqi constitution to
give more power to the ousted Sunni Arab elite.


The Saudi monarch also appealed for an end to the "crippling"
political crisis in Lebanon, where divisions were highlighted by
the presence at the summit of rival pro- and anti-Syrian
delegations.


Saudi-led efforts to break the deadlock have so far failed, but
King Abdullah met Syrian President Bashar al-Assad on Tuesday for
the first time since relations chilled last year.


Syria dominated Lebanon politically and militarily for nearly
three decades until it was forced to withdraw its troops two
years ago after the murder of former premier Rafiq Hariri.

