

The pressure is on the table-topping Auckland Blues and second-
placed Coastal Sharks this weekend as they take to the road with
neither yet guaranteed a home Super 14 rugby semi-final.


The Sharks have the tougher assignment, playing five of their
last six matches away, starting with the Western Force in Perth
on Friday.


The Force have been the surprise package of the year, lying in
fifth place, but with the jury still out on whether this is
simply the result of a favourable first-half draw as they still
have the top three sides to play.


The Blues lead with 28 points, three clear of the Sharks, with
defending champions the Canterbury Crusaders and the Northern
Bulls a further three points back, one ahead of the Force.


This weekend the Blues travel to their next door neighbours, the
Waikato Chiefs, in a local derby that has a reputation for
drawing out the best in the Chiefs.


Although they languish in ninth place, the Chiefs have won their
past two matches after a slow start to the season.


The Chiefs have also had the wood on the Blues in the past couple
of seasons, which Blues captain Troy Flavell said was a focus in
training during the week.


"There are things we've rectified," he said. "We'll be
concentrating on our team focus rather than some of the one-on-
one battles that have occurred in the past."


Despite suffering their first defeat of the year last week, at
home against the ACT Brumbies, the Sharks have named an unchanged
lineup to play the Force.


This means there is still no place in the starting line-up for
former Springbok captain Bobby Skinstad, while Percy Montgomery's
return is still at least a week away.


The Force meanwhile have star backs Matt Giteau and Matt Henjak
making a timely return.


Coach John Mitchell has also bolstered his forward pack with Tai
McIsaac, Troy Takiari and Matt Hodgson in an attempt to nullify
the big South Africans.


"Their forwards are the best in the competition," he
acknowledged.


The Crusaders, who are making a late charge for the right to a
home semi-final, face the struggling New South Wales Waratahs
without playmaker Daniel Carter, who has a neck injury.


But with All Blacks captain Richie McCaw reinstalled as captain
they should still have too much power for the Waratahs.


The Sydneysiders, who have not won a match since the first round,
have had a horror run of injuries this year, which was extended
this week with the loss of backrower Wycliff Palu.


Coach Ewan McKenzie has been forced to make five positional
changes, notably moving veteran David Lyons to lock, although
Lyons is still in doubt with a thigh injury.


The Bulls, looking to back up from a breakthrough away win
against the Otago Highlanders last week, move to Wellington to
play the Hurricanes who have gone four weeks without a win.


The Bulls are handily placed to make the play-offs, but the
Hurricanes, last year's beaten finalists, are in 11th place and
need to win all their remaining matches, probably with a bonus
point each time, if they are to have any chance of finishing in
the top four again.


Adding to their woes is the impact of the journey home from their
South African tour and a question mark over Jerry Collins, who is
struggling to overcome an ankle injury.


The ACT Brumbies put their season back on track with the upset
win over the Sharks last weekend, and now look to firm up their
recovery against the Lions at Johannesburg.


Both sides sit just below the Force on the points table, poised
to close in on a play-off spot should any of the leading teams
stumble.


The remaining game of the weekend sees the Highlanders at home to
the Central Cheetahs on Friday, while the Western Stormers and
Queensland Reds have the weekend off.

