

South Africa's police chief has called for laws banning
prostitution and street drinking to be relaxed during the 2010
World Cup to avoid having to arrest thousands of fans, reports
said Thursday.


National police commissioner Jackie Selebi told MPs it was
inevitable that large numbers of visiting supporters would
indulge in prostitution and street drinking during the tournament
and mass arrests would be impractical.


"If a visiting fan is out on the street having a bottle of beer,
must I arrest him?," he was quoted as saying by The Star
newspaper.


Selebi warned the MPs they should expect many of the ticketless
supporters who end up watching matches on giant television
screens in public parks during the tournament would be drinking
alcohol.


"What are we going to do in 2010 with all the hooligans in the
fan parks where people will be watching soccer on TV or out there
in the streets, in city squares where people will be drinking
liquor?" he said.


"Are you saying the police must go out and arrest them, or are we
going to have a special dispensation for the whole country during
that period."


He also said it would not make sense to arrest prostitutes plying
their trade during the competition, especially as the number of
sex workers was expected to increase.


Previous host country Germany designated taxis to drive people
seeking prostitutes to areas where they could do so.


"The World Cup is coming. We know, as all of you know, it
(prostitution) exists," he said.


"In Germany, they controlled it. They said this thing exists,
whether we like it or don't like it."


Plans to decriminalize prostitution have often been mooted in
South Africa as it is so costly to prosecute and is seen as a
hindrance to curbing the HIV/AIDS epidemic.


South Africa, which has one of the highest crime rates in the
world, is expecting nearly half a million foreign tourists during
the World Cup in 2010, the first time the world's biggest
sporting event takes place on African soil.

