

Police Thursday declared a young British woman whose body was
found in a bathtub filled with sand in suburban Tokyo died of
suffocation, as her distraught father vowed to see her killer
brought to justice.


An autopsy also showed huge bruises on the face of 22-year-old
English teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker, a police spokesman said.


"She was either strangled or smothered to death," the spokesman
said of the autopsy.


Police are seeking to arrest Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, who lived in
the apartment where they found Hawker's bruised and naked body
buried in a disconnected bathtub on the balcony on Tuesday.


Police issued an arrest warrant for the unemployed man for
questioning about abandoning a body.


Following the autopsy, police said they handed Hawker's body
Thursday to her father and boyfriend, who had flown in from
Britain. They are expected to take her remains for burial near
Coventry, in central England.


Her father, William Hawker, vowed to press for justice over the
death of his daughter, who finished university last year and came
to Japan in October.


"My daughter did not come here to be murdered. She came here to
help people. She came here to teach," he said late Wednesday in a
shaking voice, tears rolling down.


"I ... will not rest until the man who killed my daughter is
caught," he said.


Jiji Press news agency reported Hawker met Ichihashi only a few
days before her body was found.


"They were not in an intimate romantic relationship," the report
quoted a police officer as saying.


Other media reports said Hawker had been stalked by the Japanese
man.


Hawker apparently promised to provide an English lesson to
Ichihashi outside of the privately run English conversation
school in Chiba, east of Tokyo, where she worked, public
broadcaster NHK reported.


The police spokesman said Ichihashi dashed out of the apartment
when police officers visited to question him, dropping his
backpack.


Jiji Press said the backpack had clothes, suggesting he may have
prepared to run away.


The case comes seven years after the high-profile killing of
another young British woman, Lucie Blackman, a bar hostess whose
body was found dismembered in a seaside cave near Tokyo.


A former property developer, Joji Obara, is on trial in relation
to Blackman's death. He has pleaded not guilty. A verdict is
expected next month.

