

The Democrat-led Congress is plowing ahead with efforts to force
President George W. Bush to change course in Iraq as the Senate
nears a vote on a bill calling for a pullout of US troops by next
year.


The Senate could vote Thursday on a war funding bill that
includes a binding provision to withdraw US troops from the war-
torn country, where more than 3,235 American soldiers have died,
by March 31, 2008.


Bush reiterated Wednesday his pledge to veto the legislation if
it crosses his desk, but Democrats are pressing the president to
sit down with lawmakers to find common ground.


"Let us sit down together to do what is right for the American
people, to address the war in Iraq, so that we can bring it to an
end and bring our troops home safely and soon," said House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi.


"The toll that it's taking in lives and limbs, the toll that it's
taking on us, the strength of our security, the toll it is taking
financially and in our reputation in the world is one that is too
great," she told a news conference.


The House of Representatives already passed last week its own 124
-billion-dollar version of the emergency spending bill with a
deadline to get troops out of Iraq by August 31, 2008.


Democrats, who won control of Congress in November elections
marked by voter discontent over the war, also got a major boost
Tuesday when the Senate narrowly rejected, 50 to 48, a Republican
attempt to strip the pullout deadline from the spending bill.


Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid also sent Bush a
letter Wednesday, warning that his insistence that he will veto
the bill will "needlessly delay funding for our troops."


Reid refuted assertions by Bush and his Republican allies that a
recent "surge" of thousands of additional US troops had helped
quell sectarian violence in Iraq.


"The idea that the surge is working and that it needs more time
is a fantasy," Reid said on the Senate floor.


"What we see today in Iraq is more of the same -- the same
violence, the same chaos, the same loss of life we've seen over
the past four-plus years."


The draft Senate legislation would impose a binding requirement
for troop withdrawal to begin 120 days after passage, with a goal
of removing all but a token force in Iraq by March 31, 2008.


Bush said any such measure would play straight into the hands of
enemy.


"The consequences of imposing such a specific and random date for
withdrawal would be disastrous," Bush said. "Our enemies in Iraq
would simply have to mark their calendars.


"Some Democrats believe that by delaying funding for our troops,
they can force me to accept restrictions on our commanders that I
believe would make withdrawal and defeat more likely. That's not
going to happen," the president said.


Senate Republicans could have blocked Tuesday's vote by using the
parliamentary stalling tactic called a "filibuster," as they did
with a vote earlier this month on a non-binding resolution
criticizing the president's troop buildup.


But minority leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it, adding that his goal is to "get through the
process as rapidly as possible."


The measures on early troop withdrawal squeaked by in both
chambers by razor- thin margins, and Democrats conceded that they
were unlikely to muster the two- thirds vote to override a
presidential veto.


Meanwhile, one of Congress's most ardent opponents of timelines
repeated his assertion Wednesday that an early US troop
withdrawal from Iraq was a bad idea.


"The area will deteriorate into chaos and we will see them follow
us home," Republican Senator John McCain said on US television.


"I think 50 of my colleagues made a very bad decision yesterday.
And I believe that there's no doubt that the president, who is
the commander-in-chief ... will prevail," said McCain, contender
for his party's presidential nomination.

