

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy called late
Wednesday for a Europe-wide "diplomatic offensive" to rein in the
European Central Bank, which he blamed for the strong euro.


Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing rightwing party,
described the strength of the euro as an "inconvenience" that was
"hobbling the competitiveness of exports outside the eurozone."


"I want to launch a diplomatic offensive to persuade our partners
to put pressure on the ECB and, more importantly, put in place a
real economic government of Europe in the face of a central bank
that is not accountable to anyone," Sarkozy said during a
campaign stop in the northern city of Lille.


Sarkozy faulted the strength of the euro for the troubles at
European aircraft maker Airbus, which announced earlier this
month a restructuring scheme that will lead to the loss of 10,000
jobs.


"If the salaries are too low, it's because the euro is too high
and that businesses are having to scale down salaries to remain
competitive," said Sarkozy.


The candidate of the governing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP)
has repeatedly attacked the ECB, saying its tight monetary
policies are stifling growth and job creation.


Both Sarkozy and his main rival, Socialist candidate Segolene
Royal, have called for a re-examination of bank practices and for
the ECB to pay closer attention to the needs of eurozone
economies.


But those calls have been rejected by German Chancellor Angela
Merkel who maintains that the independence of the ECB is a
guarantee of financial stability in the 13-nation eurozone.


ECB president Jean-Claude Trichet last week defended the track
record of the euro since its launch in 1999 in the face of the
criticism from the French presidential candidates.


"I wouldn't say that it's the best of all worlds," he said in
Brussels, but stressed that "we've created more than 12 million
jobs in the eurozone in the euro's first eight years and we
created three million in the previous eight years."


"Critics of the euro would do well to meditate on the numbers,"
he advised amid attacks from presidential candidates that the ECB
focuses too much on price stability and not enough on jobs and
growth.

