

A French nun whose testimony of being miraculously cured of
Parkinson's disease is at the centre of the Vatican case for
beatifying pope John Paul II works in a Paris maternity clinic, a
spokesman said Thursday.


Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre, 45, a member of the Congregation of
Little Nuns of Catholic Motherhood from Puyricard, near the
southern city of Aix-en-Provence, has been working at the Sainte-
Felicite clinic since late 2006.


The identity of the nun who has written to the Vatican to give
her account of a "miracle" cure was to be revealed on Sunday by
Aix-en-Provence Archbishop Claude Feidt.


A spokesman reached by phone at the Sainte-Felicite clinic in
southcentral Paris confirmed that Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre
worked as a nurse at the maternity unit.


The French daily Le Figaro described her as a "dynamic and
discrete, little nun" who has testified that she was cured from
Parkinson's disease ten months ago after praying to John Paul.


The newspaper quoted excerpts of her testimony to the Vatican in
which she described that in April 2005, her health deteriorated,
and that she was being "ravaged by the disease week after week.
I felt myself weakening day after day and I could not write... or
if I did, it was barely legible."


After the death of John Paul that same month, her congregation
began to pray to the late pope to intercede on behalf of Sister
Marie-Simon-Pierre.


In June, she asked to be relieved of her duties but was told by
her mother superior to stay the course and to write a letter to
John Paul, who also suffered from Parkinson's disease.


Later that evening, Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre retired to her room
and said she "felt compelled to write as if someone was telling
me 'pick up your pen and write'".


"The writing was clearly legible," she said. That night, she
recalled waking up "stunned that I had been able to sleep. My
body was no longer in pain."


The nun attended mass that morning and said that after emerging
from church: "I was convinced that I was cured".


She stopped treatment and on June 7, a neurologist who had been
treating her for the past four years told her that "all
indications" of the disease had disappeared.


At the end of 2006, she left Puyricard for Paris where she joined
the team of nurses at Sainte-Felicite clinic.


Convincing evidence of a miracle -- usually a medical cure with
no scientific explanation -- is essential in the beatification
process.


The Rome diocese's website carries dozens of testimonials from
individuals claiming cures at the hands of the pope, but to
qualify as a miracle the recovery must be sudden, complete and
permanent -- as well as inexplicable by doctors.

