

Iran aired the first pictures of British sailors and marines
captured in the Gulf last week as London pressed for access to
the 15 personnel whose detention has set off a major diplomatic
crisis.


The only woman sailor was shown in the broadcast Wednesday saying
they had trespassed into Iranian waters, but Britain reacted
angrily to the detainees being paraded on state television and
demanded their immediate release.


It was the first time the 15 had been seen since they were seized
at gunpoint by Iran during what Britain said was a routine patrol
of Iraqi waters in the northern Gulf.


London on Wednesday froze ties with Tehran over the crisis and
protested over the footage, saying Iranian promises to release
the only woman soon were insufficient.


The television showed the Britons having a meal and featured Faye
Turney, 26, wearing a black headscarf and saying: "Obviously we
trespassed in the waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location and not allowed them any contact with British diplomats.


Britain said it was waiting to hear directly from Iranian
officials following press reports that Tehran will grant access
to the group.


"We await further details from the Iranian government on their
undertaking to act on our request for consular access to the
Royal Navy personnel," said a Foreign Office spokesman. "We
continue to press strongly for their immediate release."


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was "very concerned"
about the pictures and "any indication of pressure on or coercion
of our personnel" who she said were on a routine operation in
accordance with international law.


The crisis erupted at a time of high international tensions over
Iran's controversial nuclear programme which the West fears could
be a cover for ambitions to build atomic weapons.


Iran insists the 15 had "illegally entered" its territorial
waters, but on Wednesday said that Turney would be released in
one or two days.


However, a British Foreign Office spokesman said: "Obviously the
release of one person, one of the military personnel and not the
others, is not good enough.


Beckett on Wednesday also announced a freeze in official dealings
with Iran.


"We need to focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on
the resolution of this issue," she said. "We will therefore be
imposing a freeze on all other official bilateral business with
Iran."


Britain also revealed evidence that it said showed the 15 were in
Iraqi waters when detained.


Iran rejected this and played down Britain's decision to freeze
contacts, with a foreign ministry source quoted by the official
news agency IRNA as saying ties were already "cold and inactive."


British military chiefs used maps and GPS coordinates to affirm
that the navy personnel were 1.7 nautical miles within Iraqi
waters at the northern end of the Gulf.


The Iranian embassy in London insisted that the British personnel
had "illegally entered" up to 500 metres (yards) within Iranian
territorial waters.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair emphasised his country's
determination in the dispute.


"It is now time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international
pressure," Blair told lawmakers, adding that "there was no
justification whatever" for the detention of the sailors.


There has been speculation that Tehran could use the British
personnel either to trade for five Iranians being held by US
forces in Iraq or to seek concessions over Iran's nuclear drive.


Speaking for the European Union, German Chancellor Angela Merkel
called Iran's action "unacceptable" and renewed a call for the
soldiers' release.


NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer also called for
their immediate release.


The United States, which has already voiced "concern and outrage"
over the incident, denied that an unusual exercise involving two
US aircraft carrier strike groups in the Gulf was aimed at
raising tensions with Iran.


Oil prices were at six-month highs over the growing tensions at
around 64 dollars a barrel in Asian trade.

