

The European Union was to resume membership talks with Turkey on
Thursday, ending an eight-month hiatus caused by Ankara's refusal
to meet its trade obligations to Cyprus.


At a technical level meeting, Turkey's chief EU negotiator will
hold talks with representatives of the 27 member countries to
open talks on the second of 35 policy areas that aspiring
candidates must complete to join.


The meeting comes three months after the EU froze eight of the
policy areas, or chapters, to punish the government in Ankara for
failing to fully extend its customs agreement with the bloc to EU
member country Cyprus.


Those chapters all concern trade and external relations. When the
freeze was announced, the EU also criticised Turkey's human
rights record, especially on freedom of religion and women's and
minority rights.


The chapter to be opened Thursday concerns "enterprise and
industry policy". Under the accession freeze, chapters can be
opened but not closed until the Cyprus dispute is resolved.


In Istanbul on the eve of the talks, Babacan, who is also
Turkey's economy minister, said the breakthrough "shows that
Turkey's EU process is soundly on track and that the official
process is functioning neatly".


He said Ankara was working on reforms to meet EU norms and said
he expected negotiations to begin in three other chapters before
the end of June.


Turkey's membership talks, which began in October 2005, have been
plagued by difficulties and the only policy chapter to be opened
so far was "science and research" in June.


Many member nations are wary of inviting in a huge, relatively
poor and mainly- Muslim state which would, under EU rules, have
voting rights similar to major powers like Britain or Italy.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Greek Cypriot
traffic until the EU lives up to its pledge to end the isolation
of the Turkish Cypriot statelet in the north of the island, which
is recognised only by Ankara.


On January 22, the 27 EU countries agreed to work more quickly
toward lifting the trade isolation of the far poorer north of the
divided island.


Paradoxically, EU officials have said, the decision to stop part
of the negotiations had given impetus to talks on chapters not
linked to the Cyprus trade dispute.


Amanda Akcakoca, analyst at the Brussels-based European Policy
Centre said the move is a good sign for Turkey and one that could
restore Turkish public confidence in the EU if more chapters are
opened soon.


"The negotiations need to go on in a very dynamic fashion in
order for people in Turkey to begin to believe the EU is actually
supporting them," she said. "They have to see it with their own
eyes."


Cyprus was divided in 1974 when Turkey seized its northern third
in response to an Athens-engineered coup in Nicosia aimed at
uniting the island with Greece.

