

German department store operator KarstadtQuelle said Thursday
that it swung back to profit last year as the deep restructuring
of the past two years begins to bear fruit.


The group announced that it planned to change its name to
Arcandor in future, even if the individual Karstadt (department
stores), Quelle (mail order) and Thomas Cook (tourism) brands
would be retained.


KarstadtQuelle said in a statement it booked bottom-line net
profit of 346 million euros (460 million dollars) in 2006,
compared with a loss of 316 million euros a year earlier.


Operating profit, excluding the real estate and services
divisions, was up 20.2 percent at 313 million euros, while sales
slipped by 0.9 percent to 13.05 billion euros.


"We achieved all our earnings targets in 2006," KarstadtQuelle
chairman Thomas Middelhoff said.


"The tourism business of Thomas Cook posted a record result,
Karstadt earnings more than doubled and the mail order division
initiated the strategic realignment to achieve break-even at the
end of this year."


Thomas Cook saw operating profit, as measured by earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA), rise by
4.1 percent to 199 million euros and the unit gained market share
"in almost all European markets," KarstadtQuelle said.


With the acquisition of Lufthansa's 50-percent stake in Thomas
Cook, Thomas Cook was now the largest business division within
the KarstadtQuelle group.


Operating profit in the Karstadt department store division more
than doubled to 146 million euros from 65 million euros on a
3.5-percent rise in sales to 4.9 billion euros.


"We markedly outperformed the German retail market" in the
department store division, the group said.


"We have achieved the targets set in the majority of our stores.
But there are also individual smaller and medium-sized department
stores that have not yet reached the benchmark," it continued.


"Throughout this year, we will weigh the chances as to how and
whether they can achieve these targets," said CEO Middelhoff.


"The objective this year is to further markedly improve results
in the department store division against 2006."


Looking ahead to the current year, Middelhoff said that the first
few weeks of 207 had been impacted by the three percentage-point
increase in value-added or sales tax (VAT).


"However, since the middle of February there has been a
noticeable upward movement," the chairman said. "Since then, all
three operating divisions are performing at or above the previous
year."


Sales and earnings in the department store division "will be
increased considerably," and the mail order division was
projected to break even, he said.


Investors appeared to share the group's optimism, with
KarstadtQuelle shares showing a gain of 0.42 euros or 1.55
percent at 27.50 in late-morning trade on the Frankfurt stock
exchange.

