

Pakistani tribesmen fought fresh battles with foreign Al-Qaeda
militants Thursday, ending a seven-day ceasefire in a troubled
border region where 160 people died last week, officials said.


The government of Pakistan, a key US ally, has said the clashes
in South Waziristan show the success of its policy of encouraging
tribes to drive out foreigners who fled Afghanistan in 2001,
instead of using the army.


Security officials said Uzbek and Chechen insurgents traded heavy
weapons fire overnight Wednesday with local pro-government tribes
in the mountainous region bordering Afghanistan.


"Fighting has started again between local tribesmen and
foreigners and they are using heavy weapons and small arms in the
Azam Warsak and Kalusha areas," a local government source said.


"Our initial reports are that two local tribesmen were injured in
the fresh fighting," he said.


The same areas have been wracked by violence since March 19 when
ex-Taliban commander Mullah Nazir, who the government says has
crossed to its side, ordered followers of Uzbek militant Tahir
Yuldashev to disarm.


Yuldashev was formerly a close confidant of Al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden, officials say.


Taliban militants, including one wanted for a series of deadly
suicide bombings in Pakistani cities, had brought the two sides
for ceasefire negotiations in the rugged region last week.


A local tribal commander said that fighting would continue till
all foreign militants were expelled from South Waziristan.


"Though the jirga (tribal council) is still trying to negotiate a
ceasefire, our position remains firm that all Uzbek militants
should leave the area," Haji Sharif, a supporter of Nazir told
AFP.


Separately troops enforced a tense curfew for a second day in the
northwestern town of Tank -- which is not in the tribal belt but
is next to South Waziristan -- following clashes between Taliban
and security forces.


Authorities announced a two-hour break in the curfew from 1:00pm
to 3:00pm to allow people to buy food and supplies while extra
troops have been deployed to control the situation, local
officials said.


A Taliban leader and a policeman were killed in Tank on Monday
when militant recruiters tried to enter a high school. Gunmen
kidnapped the school's principal the next day.


A soldier and two other people were killed in fierce rocket
battles the following day.

