

Taiwan's Premier Su Tseng-chang ordered an investigation Thursday
into how a privately-run TVBS news network ran footage of a gun-
waving wanted criminal threatening to kill a rival gang leader.


Su said Taiwan must not allow a known criminal to take advantage
of the media.


"Did it (TVBS) not know its social responsibility?" Su asked
while visiting the office of Taiwan's top police chief, Ho You-
yi.


He said he had ordered an investigation into the event to check
if there was any relationship between the reporter involved and
the gangster.


He also asked the cabinet-level National Communications
Commission to take immediate action "to prevent any media from
doing such things which break the law."


Legislator Wu Yu-sheng from the leading opposition Kuomintang
called the event "the darkest day of Taiwan media" and a group of
politicians from the ruling Democratic Progressive Party
protested Thursday outside the TVBS headquarters in Taipei.


TVBS, the island's leading cable news network, on Monday night
aired five minutes of footage showing Chou Cheng-pao wearing a
black bullet-proof vest, waving a handgun and threatening to kill
a leading member of another gang.


Chou made threats against Liu Jui-jung, the leader of another
gang whom Chou suspected was the mastermind of the recent murder
of one of his gang.


"This is something between me and Liu ... I want him to die if I
meet him," Chou said.


The network, which had treated the story as a scoop, said then
that the tape was given to its reporters by an unidentified
source.


Chou admitted in the footage that he had played a role in three
of four shooting cases reported in the central Taichung city in
the past two weeks.


He also displayed a shotgun and two rifles in the tape in an
apparent attempt to show off his firepower.


TVBS later gave the police a copy of the tape and several other
local cable television stations broadcast the same content, which
they obtained from police.


On Wednesday night, TVBS issued a statement apologising to the
public for the story.


It said its own investigation showed that the film was shot by
its reporter, Shih Chen-kang, and Shih's superior, Chang Yu-kun,
had helped, "leading the company to inadvertently broadcast the
tape."


TVBS said it had fired both staff. "We apologise to the people
for a lapse in supervision ... we should take full
responsibility," it said.


After preliminary questioning by police, Shih was released on
bail of 100,000 Taiwan dollars (3,024 US). Shih's lawyer said his
client was charged with helping to endanger public security and
joint possession (with the gangster) of illegal firearms. Chang
was freed without charge.

