

Japan's premier Thursday denied any wrongdoing after documents
suggested past governments quietly asked a Shinto shrine to
honour war criminals, setting the stage for a major diplomatic
row.


The Yasukuni shrine venerates 2.5 million Japanese war dead
including World War II leaders condemned by US-led allied powers
as war criminals. It has been seen abroad and by many at home as
a symbol of Japan's militarist past.


US occupation forces stripped the shrine of its official status
after World War II and Japanese leaders have since stressed the
site's private nature.


But documents released by the National Diet Library and reported
Thursday by major newspapers suggest the government was closely
involved in the decision to include war criminals at the shrine.


A document dated January 1969 shows the shrine consulted the
government on plans to list the names of top, or Class-A, war
criminals, "without making it public," the Yomiuri Shimbun
newspaper said.


The Yasukuni shrine discreetly added the names of 14 Class-A war
criminals, who include hanged wartime premier Hideki Tojo, in
October 1978.


Another document dated April 1958 said the welfare ministry urged
the shrine to list the names of hundreds of lower-ranking Class-B
and Class-C war criminals.


"How about enshrining them in a way that would be hard to
discover?" a document quoted an unnamed official as saying,
according to the Yomiuri Shimbun.


The government denied official pressure to honour war criminals.


"It was the shrine that enshrined them, and (the ministry) just
provided information. There is no problem," Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe said.


Yasuhisa Shiozaki, the chief spokesman for Abe's government, said
it was "the shrine's decision whom to include and whom not to
include in the list for enshrinement."


"The final decision is made by the shrine and the government did
not force it to do anything," Shiozaki told reporters.


Former prime minister Junichiro Koizumi repeatedly visited the
shrine, infuriating China and South Korea which remain resentful
over Japanese imperialism. The two countries refused summits with
Koizumi.


Since succeeding Koizumi in September, Abe is not known to have
visited the shrine, leading to a resumption of summits with
Beijing and Seoul.


South Korea, where Japan's Foreign Minister Taro Aso plans a
weekend visit to further repair ties, demanded that Tokyo address
Asian concerns about the Yasukuni shrine after the latest
allegations.


"The government wants Japan to no longer distort history and take
responsible measures based on a right historical view," said a
foreign ministry statement in Seoul.


The revelations come less than two weeks before a scheduled trip
to Japan by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, who will become the first
Chinese leader to visit Tokyo since 2000.


Abe, known for his conservative views on history, was in the past
a strong supporter of the Yasukuni shrine but since taking office
has chosen "strategic ambiguity" on whether he will go.


Abe's Liberal Democratic Party has been in power continuously for
all but 10 months since 1955.

