

A New York-based rights group Thursday urged the FBI to re-
investigate a grenade attack that killed more than a dozen
Cambodians a decade ago.


Human Rights Watch said on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the
attack, which also wounded an American, "The FBI launched the
only investigation into the attack, but the US has inexplicably
dropped it".


The Federal Bureau of Investigation opened a probe into the
attack after US citizen Ron Abney, who was country director of
the US-funded democracy group International Republican Institute,
was seriously wounded by shrapnel.


But the investigation was hampered by uncooperative Cambodian
government officials and quickly bogged down.


"Intentional amnesia has since set in, and no government or donor
now says a word about the attack," Human Rights Watch Asia
director Brad Adams said in a statement.


"The US government should insist that the FBI return to complete
its investigation."


At least 16 people were killed and some 120 wounded after four
grenades were thrown into an anti-government demonstration
outside Cambodia's parliament in the capital Phnom Penh on March
30, 1997.


Opposition leader Sam Rainsy, who was leading the demonstration,
was also wounded in the blasts, which occurred during a time of
serious political strife ahead of national elections in 1998.


No one has ever been arrested for the attack, but people
connected to Prime Minister Hun Sen's bodyguard unit, which was
present at the rally, are largely thought to be responsible,
Human Rights Watch said.


"The authorities have never offered a credible explanation for
the deployment or behaviour of Hun sen's bodyguards -- the
actions speak for themselves, and may reach the highest levels of
the Cambodian government," Adams said.


"This brazen attack carried out in broad daylight ingrained
impunity in Cambodia more than any other single act in the
country's recent history," he added.


Hun sen has repeatedly denied involvement in the bombing.


Sam Rainsy is expected to lead a rally Friday at the site of the
attack, although he has stopped accusing Hun Sen of being behind
the incident after returning from self-imposed exile last year.


The opposition leader has since been allowed to return to
politics in what many observers say was a deal between his party
and Hun Sen's government to lessen political dissent.

