

Sri Lanka fast bowler Lasith Malinga nearly gatecrashed South
Africa's party when he became the first bowler in one-day history
to grab four wickets off successive balls.


The paceman with the low-slung round-arm action, bleach-blond
hair and eyebrow ring dismissed Shaun Pollock, Andrew Hall,
Jacques Kallis and Makhaya Ntini to raise his team's hopes of an
incredible victory in a World Cup Super Eights match here on
Wednesday.


South Africa, chasing a modest 210 to win, were cruising at 206-5
before being nearly blown away by Malinga's magic spell.


Graeme Smith's side heaved a collective sigh of relief when Robin
Peterson edged Malinga past the slip for a winning four.


"I'm feeling bad because we lost the game, but I'm happy that I
took a hat- trick," said Malinga, only the fifth bowler in the
Cup history to achieve such a feat.


"The old ball was reverse-swinging and I got the wickets. I tried
to get five- in-a-row, but unfortunately couldn't. I think we
didn't have enough runs."


Other hat-trick bowlers were India paceman Chetan Sharma (v New
Zealand in 1987), Pakistan off-spinner Saqlain Mushtaq (v
Zimbabwe in 1999), Sri Lanka paceman Chaminda Vaas (v Bangladesh
in 2003) and Australia fast bowler Brett Lee (v Kenya in 2003).


"He's amazing. With an action like that, he still manages to keep
the ball straight in line and the right length all the time. He
is a magnificent bowler and I like him," said former West Indies
fast bowler Colin Croft.


"He is going to surprise a lot of batsmen. He will become better
and stronger in time."


Batsmen in the ongoing tournament have been finding it difficult
to read the 23 -year-old Malinga.


He had already taken three wickets each in his first two group
matches in Trinidad against debutants Bermuda and Bangladesh
before threatening to alter the course of the match against South
Africa.


"That spell at the end from Malinga really tested us," South
Africa captain Graeme Smith said after his team's one-wicket
victory.


Malinga's action caused New Zealand's batsmen a lot of problems
in a Test series in 2005.


New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming admitted most of his batsmen
found it difficult to sight the ball, which was coming virtually
in front of the umpires and missing the sightscreen.


"We asked the umpires to change the colour of their trousers.
There's a period there when he's delivering when it gets lost
against the trousers," Fleming said.


The umpires didn't change their uniforms although West Indias
official Steve Bucknor tied a sweater around his waist on the
final day of the drawn first Test at Napier.


Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody said Malinga had given the team a
different dimension.


"Up front, he has the ability to take wickets with the new ball.
With the old ball, he is very good at executing it right up in
the blockhole," said Moody.


Malinga was rated the fastest bowler at home when he made his
one-day and Test debuts in 2004, but lacked consistency. He kept
learning and improving with every match to eventually become a
strike bowler.


He played a big role in his team's 5-0 one-day series victory in
England, grabbing 13 wickets in five matches. He also impressed
in the Champions Trophy in India in 2006 with his pace and
control.


Malinga has so far captured 50 wickets in 32 one-dayers.

