

Philippine National Police chief Oscar Calderon was furious
Thursday over the chaotic handling of Manila's hostage crisis and
was demanding answers from his officers.


As Wednesday's drama unfolded outside Manila's City Hall it
became apparent that no one was in overall charge of the
situation, as some prominent politicians appeared to take
control.


"I don't know why everybody and his cousin went there," PNP chief
Oscar Calderon told reporters. "But I am going to find out."


Local businessman Armando Ducat, 56, is expected to be charged
with possession of illegal weapons and kidnapping after a 10-hour
hostage drama on Wednesday when he hijacked a school bus with 26
children onboard and four of their teachers.


Ducat's dramatic stunt was done to highlight rampant poverty in
this Southeast Asian nation of 87 million people. But many saw it
as a bizarre publicity stunt.


The press and a huge crowd of curious onlookers -- including a
section of Ducat supporters who chanted the eccentric
philanthrophist's name in support -- were also allowed to push
back police lines to within a few metres (yards) of the bus.


Ducat and his associate Cesar Carbonell surrendered after a tense
and at times chaotic standoff in which two prominent politicians
appointed themselves as lead negotiators to win the release of
the hostages.


As the drama unfolded, President Gloria Arroyo named Manila's de
facto governor, Bayani Fernando, to lead police efforts to win
the release of the young hostages.


"I don't know who these people were taking their orders from.
Certainly not from the (Philippine National Police) leadership so
we are going to find out all of these things," Calderon said.


Calderon has imposed a "gag order" on all the officers involved
in the operation, pending an official inquiry.


He said he had nothing against Senator Ramon Revilla and
senatorial candidate Luis Singson -- who was responsible for
bringing former president Joseph Estrada down -- getting on board
the bus to win the release of the hostages.


But the police ground commander "should have gone through
channels," Calderon said.


"It should have been cleared with his superior officers to make
sure that this was something they were comfortable with ... he
practically surrendered the entire thing to everybody else."


Interior Secretary Ronaldo Puno told reporters he was "not very
happy" with the way the hostage crisis was handled either.


"The good news is that no one was hurt, the children are safe and
there were no unfortunate incidents that occurred, but really
this is not the way such things should be handled."


Police ground rules on hostage situations "are meant to protect
the citizenry and the public from harm in these situations, and
when you do not follow these rules you basically risk the safety
of the entire community."


Puno said that had there been violence, "the number of casualties
might have been larger than they need be" because the press and
the crowd were too close to the location of the armed hostage-
takers."


Puno said he had ordered Calderon to stand down "the district
director, the precinct commander of the area where the incident
happened, and the ground commander" for the duration of the
police inquiry.


"We are lucky and fortunate and God has been kind to us that this
thing did not result in any disaster, but we cannot have these
things handled this way."

