

Scotland manager Alex McLeish remains confident his side will
still qualify for the 2008 European championships despite their
2-0 defeat to world champions Italy.


Luca Toni headed both goals as the Italians claimed their third
consecutive victory in Group B here on Wednesday to reduce the
gap between them and the Scots from five points to just two.


Scotland, together with France and Ukraine, top the group on 12
points while Italy have 10. However, the Scots have played one
game more than their rivals.


"We are still very much in the race," McLeish insisted.


"We have to look forward now and our matches in Glasgow will be
key to qualification."


Scotland's next game is away to whipping boys Faroe Islands on
June 6 before a home match against Lithuania on September 8.


Italy's win not only gave their qualification hopes a shot in the
arm, but also eased the pressure on their under-fire coach
Roberto Donadoni.


Some Italian newspaper reports said Donadoni was going to be
sacked if the Azzurri had failed to beat the Scots.


The 43-year-old former AC Milan and Italy midfielder has
struggled to win over the media since he took over from Marcello
Lippi shortly after the World Cup, and just one point from their
first two qualifiers did little to help his cause.


But after a stuttering start, three straight wins have revived
Italy's campaign, leaving them far better placed to reach next
year's tournament in Austria and Switzerland.


Italy's players sprang to Donadoni's defence after their victory.


"Unfortunately in Italy games are played in newspapers first
before the pitch," said tigerish midfielder Gennaro Gattuso who
spent one season playing in Scotland with Glasgow Rangers.


"They (the media) massacred Donadoni. We wanted to win this match
tonight for ourselves but above all for him. He's an excellent
hard working coach.


"In my view, the only mistake we have made in this campaign was
the 1-1 draw at home to Lithuania. If we had put away our chances
that day we would be joint top.


"It's time to stop comparing Donadoni with Lippi. It's a bad
habit in Italy."


Massimo Oddo was equally supportive of Donadoni.


"This victory was down to Donadoni's choice of tactics," said the
AC Milan defender.


"The criticism he received leading up to the match was totally
unjust."


Gattuso said he felt Ukraine will pose a bigger threat than
Scotland in the race for the two qualification places.


"I think Ukraine have something more than Scotland," he said.

