

The Australian government said Thursday it had no power to alter
any jail term imposed on Guantanamo detainee David Hicks under an
agreement with the US allowing him to serve his sentence on home
soil.


Attorney-General Philip Ruddock said Canberra had signed a prison
transfer agreement with the United States, agreeing it could not
change Hicks' sentence if he was transferred to an Australian
prison.


"(The agreement) clears the way for Mr. Hicks to apply for
transfer should he receive a custodial sentence," Ruddock told
parliament.


"The arrangement provides for enforcement of the nature and
duration of any sentence so that the Australian government could
not unilaterally shorten or dispose of any such sentence.


"The arrangement with the United States is such that only the
United States can pardon a prisoner."


The agreement means Hicks is likely to serve his jail term in
Australia, most likely near his home town of Adelaide.


The 31-year-old Muslim convert pleaded guilty at a US military
tribunal at Guantanamo Bay Tuesday to providing material support
for terrorism. He is scheduled to be sentenced later this week.


Ruddock was responding to comments from Hicks' father, Terry,
Thursday that his son could use Australian courts to appeal any
jail term handed down by the US military commission.


"It depends on the legal profession," Terry Hicks said. "But the
(Australian) legal profession aren't happy about the way it has
been done.


"They might take it on their own that once David is back here, do
something."


Hicks said his son pleaded guilty to a terrorism charge because
it was the only way he could get out of the US military base in
Cuba.


He said David Hicks had been disheartened by the military
commission's disqualification of two of his lawyers in the first
day's hearings and simply wanted to end his five-year
incarceration at Guantanamo.


"He knows that, in particular, the way the courts system worked
against him and against his lawyers that he's not going to be
found not guilty -- they are going to nail him to the wall,"
Hicks told reporters after returning to Australia from the
hearing.


"So what David has done, in his best interests, is to plead
guilty.


"After the conversations we had with David, you could see all he
wants to do is get home."


Hicks was captured in Afghanistan in 2001 after a US-led invasion
to overthrow the Taliban regime -- following the September 11
attacks on New York and Washington -- then transferred to the US
military's Guantanamo Bay base in Cuba.


The former kangaroo skinner was accused of undergoing training at
an Al-Qaeda camp in Afghanistan and volunteering to fight
alongside the Taliban.

