

The Swiss supreme court has overturned an arbitration ruling that
had confirmed Argentine tennis player Guillermo Canas's doping
ban last year, the Court of Arbitration of Sport said Thursday.


The ruling last week, which has not yet been published, followed
an appeal by Canas against the CAS decision on his ATP suspension
in 2005 on a doping charge.


"The Swiss Federal Tribunal has upheld the appeal and has decided
to annul the award by CAS," Matthieu Reeb, Secretary General of
the Swiss-based sports arbitration court, told AFP.


Reeb said CAS could not decide on what steps need to be taken
until it receives the full judgement.


But the fresh ruling is likely to lead to a re-examination of
Canas's case by world sport's top court even if the final
sanction might not necessarily be changed, he added.


A panel of CAS arbitrators had cut Canas's ban from tennis to 15
months in May 2006 after the Argentine player appealed against
his two year ATP suspension on a doping offence.


The Argentinian, now number 55 in the ATP rankings, has made a
stunning start to the season following his return to competitive
tennis last September.


He beat world number one Roger Federer for the second time in
three weeks in Miami on Wednesday.


The ATP had slapped the ban on Canas after he was found to have
taken the prohibited diuretic hydrochlorothiazide at Acapulco,
Mexico in February 2005, where he was beaten by Spain's Rafael
Nadal in the quarter-finals.


CAS then partly overturned and reduced the sanction imposed by
tennis authorities, ruling that Canas was not entirely to blame
for a positive dope test because medication was wrongly given to
him.


The Swiss Federal Tribunal, which is legally empowered as the
final appeals body for CAS, was likely to have upheld Canas's
claim that part of his challenge to the ATP's decision was not
fully examined, Reeb explained.


"It does not mean that the sanction will be cancelled, but CAS
has to review the missing elements," he added.


The Argentinian was ranked tenth in the world before being
banned.

