

Shaun Pollock was South Africa's star bowler during his country's
home one-day international season but his World Cup form is a
worry for captain Graeme Smith.


In two successive matches, the normally miserly Pollock has
"travelled", in Smith's words, after being targeted by opposition
batsmen.


Against Australia in St Kitts Saturday, Pollock was hammered for
42 runs in an opening spell of five overs. He finished with a
career-worst none for 83 in ten.


The pattern was similar against Sri Lanka at the Guyana National
Stadium here on Wednesday when Smith had to take his star bowler
out of the attack after he conceded 32 runs in four overs.


"It's something were going to have to look at," said Smith.


"I think most teams are probably going to look to target him up
front. He's a key bowler for us when he bowls well."


Australia went on to win Saturday's match but South Africa beat
Sri Lanka by one wicket, largely because Pollock's fellow bowlers
performed well.


"I think he was backed up superbly today by the rest of the
guys," said Smith.


Pollock, 33, arrived at the World Cup in the best form of his
life.


After he took five for 23 against Pakistan in South Africa's
final international before the World Cup, the International
Cricket Council announced that he had achieved the third-highest
bowling points ranking of all time  behind only past greats Joel
Garner of the West Indies and New Zealand's Richard Hadlee.


Pollock is at his best when there is life and pace in the pitch,
such as he finds in South Africa.


But on the slow, unhelpful pitches of the West Indies he has been
vulnerable to attacks from the likes of Australia's Matthew
Hayden and Sri Lanka's Sanath Jayasuriya.


Smith gave no hint of what looking at the Pollock situation might
entail.


Pollock will have a chance to redeem himself in South Africa's
next two matches against Ireland and Bangladesh, the weakest
teams in the second round Super Eights.


But when it comes to the tougher games Smith and coach Mickey
Arthur might have to consider giving the new ball to someone
else, like swing bowler Charl Langeveldt, who came on as first
change to replace Pollock Wednesday and took a career-best five
for 39.

