

Triple Olympic medallist Bradley Wiggins will lead Britain's bid
for a possible three gold medals on the first day of the world
track cycling championships here Thursday.


Wiggins, the Olympic pursuit champion, blitzed qualifying for the
individual event in a time of 4min 15.976sec to book his place in
the final against Robert Bartko of Germany.


Bartko, the reigning champion, was in danger of finishing in
third place until he produced a late burst in the closing laps of
the 16-lap race against the clock to secure his place in the
final.


An all-Spanish match-up of Sergi Escobar and Antonio Tauler will
decide the bronze medal.


Earlier English pair Victoria Pendleton and Shanaze Reade beat
Russia in their qualifying heat for the inaugural, two-rider
women's team sprint event in a best time of 33.630sec.


They will now meet Dutch pair Yvonne Hijgenaar and Willy Kanis in
the final, which follows Wiggins' bid for gold, while Australian
pair Kristine Bayley and Anna Meares will meet France in the
bronze medal match.


Britain's bid to claim three golds on the first day of the four-
day competition will continue later when the all-Scottish trio of
Craig MacLean, Ross Edgar and Chris Hoy aim to emulate their
triumphant ride in last year's Commonwealth Games.


France are the reigning champions in the three-man event after
beating MacLean, Jamie Staff and Hoy to the gold in Bordeaux last
year.


Wiggins has temporarily sidelined his professional road racing
career with the French team Cofidis as he aims to strike a
psychological blow to his rivals 17 months ahead of next year's
Olympic Games in Beijing.


The 26-year-old ended a six-year hiatus on the track World Cup
this season, returning recently to win the individual event at
Manchester in February.


The last time Wiggins competed at the world track championships
was in 2003, when he won gold in the individual pursuit and
silver in the team event.


At the 2004 Olympic in Athens Wiggins won three medals, adding
silver in the team pursuit behind champions Australia to his gold
in the individual event and his bronze from the Madison with
Robert Hayles.


The first day of the four-day world championships competition
features four gold medal events: the inaugural men's omnium, the
inaugural women's team sprint, the men's team sprint and the
men's individual pursuit.

