

Armando Ducat, who held a busload of young children hostage in a
demand for housing and education, built a pre-school day centre
with his own money to give a better start to life in a Manila
slum.


But he is no stranger to high-profile stunts either, springing to
national attention for a previous hostage-taking and a hunger
strike and also running for public office.


His hostage stunt, political scientist Alex Magno wrote in the
Philippine Star newspaper, could be interpreted as "a primal
scream by a citizen who has had enough."


Aged 56, with limp hair and a mournful gaze, Ducat and an
accomplice took control Wednesday of a bus carrying 32 children
from his day care centre and two teachers.


They drove it to a street beside city hall where they demanded
free housing and free education for the 145 wards at the Musmos
centre he owns in Manila's Parola compound slum.


A civil engineer, he had built the facility to help children from
the slum, a drugs- and crime-blighted district where the slimy
Pasig River empties into Manila Bay.


"I ask for their forgiveness for using their children to call
attention to widespread corruption," he told reporters from his
prison cell Thursday.


Elmer Calleja, one of Ducat's volunteer teachers, said the day
care centre had taught more than 200 children since it was built
in 2005.


"Mr. Ducat has been very helpful to us, and we all want him
freed. Maybe he wanted to be aggressive and show our sad plight
here," he said.


Neighbours and associates describe him as a moderately successful
building contractor and owner of a handicraft exports shop who
maintains a house in an upscale gated community in southern
Manila.


He had run for public office several times, the last time for
Manila city council, but never won, and was disqualified when he
tried to run for a House of Representatives seat in 2001.


"I heard that he is angling for the House again these coming
elections in the third district of Manila," said Manila Mayor
Joselito Atienza.


"I know him as a very, very passionate individual who has his own
kind of thinking on the solutions to our problems," Atienza
added.


"But we cannot agree with his ways."


Nevertheless, despite a show of support in the Parola compound --
"he is a good person... He has been very kind to us," said one
sympathiser -- President Gloria Arroyo called for his swift
prosecution.


Senator Alfredo Lim, a former Manila police chief, remembers
taking Ducat into custody after he took two Roman Catholic
priests hostage in the San Roque parish of Manila in 1987 over a
building contract dispute.


The priests were freed unharmed and Ducat, who had used fake
grenades, was charged. But the case failed to finish.


Police in Manila said Ducat also had to be persuaded down from
the top of a monument on a roundabout in 1995, where he mounted a
hunger strike to try to get the government to ban Chinese-
Filipinos from running for office.


In 2001 he hit newspaper front pages again with a "citizen's
arrest" of two Bureau of Internal Revenue officers he accused of
extorting money from South Korean firms, the Philippine Daily
Inquirer said.


The Philippine Star newspaper said he once pulled a wagon loaded
with sacks of rice more than 100 kilometres (62 miles) from the
northern Philippines into Manila to protest at high prices of
rice.

