

Britain pressed Iran on Thursday for access to 15 sailors whose
detention has set off a major diplomatic crisis, voicing concern
after state television aired pictures of the captured personnel.


International pressure was mounting on Tehran to release the
group but the British embassy said it still had no news on their
fate.


And an influential Iranian MP warned Britain against "bullying"
after London froze official contacts with Tehran over the
standoff.


The only woman sailor, who Iran has promised to release soon, was
shown in the television footage broadcast on Wednesday saying
they had trespassed into Iranian waters.


It was the first time the 15 had been seen since they were seized
at gunpoint by Iran during what Britain said was a routine patrol
of Iraqi waters in the northern Gulf on Friday.


"We have no information for the moment about a consular visit
with the 15 sailors and the release of Faye Turney," a British
diplomat told AFP.


"Ambassador Geoffrey Adams has asked for another visit with
foreign ministry officials. We are awaiting a response."


Iran's Arabic language Al-Alam television showed the Britons
having a meal and featured Turney, 26, wearing a black headscarf
and saying: "Obviously we trespassed in the waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location and not allowed them any contact with British diplomats.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said she was "very concerned"
about the pictures and "any indication of pressure on or coercion
of our personnel" who she said were on a routine operation in
accordance with international law.


The crisis erupted at a time of high international tensions over
Iran's controversial nuclear programme which the West fears could
be a cover for ambitions to build atomic weapons.


The crisis has sent oil prices soaring to six-month highs of
around 64 dollars a barrel in Asian trade.


Iran insists the 15 had "illegally entered" its territorial
waters, but on Wednesday said Turney would be released in one or
two days.


However, a British Foreign Office spokesman said: "Obviously the
release of one person, one of the military personnel and not the
others, is not good enough."


Beckett on Wednesday also announced a freeze in official dealings
with Iran.


"We need to focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on
the resolution of this issue," she said. "We will therefore be
imposing a freeze on all other official bilateral business with
Iran."


But Alaeddin Borujerdi, the head of Iran's influential
parliamentary national security commission, said "Britain should
know the time of bullying is gone."


"Detaining the violating British forces was a response to an
aggression," he told the Fars news agency on Wednesday.
"Threatening to severe trade ties and such language only further
complicates the issue."


On Wednesday, British military chiefs used maps and GPS
coordinates to affirm that the navy personnel were 1.7 nautical
miles within Iraqi waters at the northern end of the Gulf.


But the Iranian embassy in London insisted that the British
personnel had "illegally entered" up to 500 metres (yards) within
Iranian territorial waters.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair emphasised his country's
determination in the dispute.


"It is now time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international
pressure," Blair told lawmakers, adding that "there was no
justification whatever" for the detention of the sailors.


There has been speculation that Tehran could use the British
personnel either to trade for five Iranians being held by US
forces in Iraq or to seek concessions over Iran's nuclear drive.


EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana said he had told Iranian
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki that the seizure of the
British sailors was "unacceptable" .


"We hope that in the coming days and coming weeks the Iranian
leaders will show wisdom to resolve this problem with Great
Britain," he added.


The United States, which has already voiced "concern and outrage"
over the incident, denied that an unusual exercise involving two
US aircraft carrier strike groups in the Gulf was aimed at
raising tensions with Iran.

