

A consortium led by Australian financial group Macquarie on
Thursday unveiled its proposal for a horseshoe-shaped stadium as
part of a redevelopment bid for Singapore.


The open-ended, waterfront, 55,000-seat national sports stadium
would be the first of its kind in the world, Macquarie said.


The Macquarie-led SingaporeGold consortium, one of three bidders
shortlisted for the multi-million dollar project, unveiled its
proposal publicly after submitting it to the Singapore government
last month.


Executives from the consortium, which includes the designer of
London's Wembley Stadium, said their proposal would be an iconic
addition to the Singapore skyline.


"Our design enhances Singapore's reputation as one of the world's
most beautiful waterfront cities and creates a truly modern 21st
century sports and recreation hub that will place Singapore at
the centre of the global sporting community," said Neil Arora,
the project director.


"It will be the pride and and joy of every Singaporean," said
Arora, Macquarie's executive director for regional
infrastructure.


The proposal also includes a multi-purpose 3,000-seat indoor
arena and aquatic centre.


The stadium features a retractable roof and its seating capacity
can be expanded by another 25,000 with temporary stands.


Arora and other consortium partners said they were not allowed to
reveal the value of their bid for the sports project, part of
Singapore's plans to redevelop the existing national stadium and
surrounding precinct.


The Straits Times reported Thursday the redevelopment was
expected to cost from 600 million Singapore dollars (397 million
US) to 800 million dollars.


Sports Minister Vivian Balakrishnan was quoted as saying all
three bidders had submitted "truly spectacular" proposals.


"Any one of those, if built, will become an icon," he said.


The other two bidders for the project are Alpine Consortium and
Singapore Sports Hub Consortium.


A winner will be announced by the middle of this year.

