

The South Korean and Japanese foreign ministers will discuss
Tokyo's wartime sex slavery when they meet this weekend,
officials said Thursday.


Foreign Minister Taro Aso will visit the southern resort island
of Jeju Saturday and Sunday for talks with his South Korean
counterpart Song Min-Soon.


The Song-Aso meeting will last for two hours on Saturday but no
joint press conference or statement is planned after the talks.


Both sides "will exchange frank opinions" on ways to improve
relations and expand cooperation in resolving North Korea's
nuclear problem and other regional issues, a foreign ministry
official told reporters on condition of anonymity.


"Both sides cannot just pass by the issue of 'comfort women'
which has emerged as a pending issue between South Korea and
Japan," the official said.


Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe sparked widespread anger
recently by saying there is no evidence that Tokyo had coerced
Asian and other women -- known as "comfort women" -- to serve in
brothels for its troops during World War II.


His remarks sparked a furore in Asian nations that were invaded
by Japan and also in the United States, where the US Congress is
considering a bill that would demand Japan make an outright
apology to the women.


Abe has since tried to cool down the row, saying he "sincerely"
stood by the previous Tokyo government's 1993 apology for wartime
sex slavery.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves.


Seoul's foreign ministry Thursday also issued a statement
demanding the Japanese government address Asian concerns about
the Yasukuni Shrine, which honours Japanese war dead including
war criminals.


"The government wants Japan to no longer distort history and take
responsible measures based on a right historical view," it said
after media disclosures that Tokyo's health ministry had been
directly involved in honouring the war criminals at the shrine.


Often visited by top Japanese politicians, the shrine honors
about 2.5 million war dead including 14 class-A war criminals.
Asian neighbours regard it as a symbol of Japan's past
militarism.


Tokyo has rejected a request by Seoul to exclude the war
criminals from the enshrined list, sayng the shrine has nothing
to do with the government.


Korea was colonised by Japan from 1910 to 1945, and many Koreans
still harbour deep resentment against Japanese.

