

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier was to face a
parliamentary committee on Thursday to answer charges that he
abandoned a German-born Turk to languish in Guantanamo Bay for
four years.


Steinmeier has been dogged for more than a year by the case of
Murat Kurnaz, 24, who claims Berlin turned down an offer to
release him in 2002 after US officials found he posed no danger.


The minister at the time was serving as former chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's chief of staff and attended a meeting with members of
the German foreign intelligence service (BND) at which Kurnaz's
fate was discussed.


The head of the BND, Ernst Uhrlau, has told the committee that
Berlin did not want Kurnaz to be sent back to Germany in 2002
because he was deemed a security risk.


"We believed that Kurnaz was potentially dangerous," Uhrlau told
the committee this month.


Uhrlau also denied that there had been an offer from the United
States to release him in 2002.


Kurnaz was eventually freed in August 2006, after Chancellor
Angela Merkel came to power, because of a lack of proof that he
belonged to a terrorist group. He lives in the northern German
city of Bremen.


Kurnaz was arrested in Pakistan in 2001 and taken to Afghanistan,
before being transferred to the Guantanamo Bay prison in Cuba in
early 2002.


Steinmeier has suggested in interviews that Berlin had wanted
Kurnaz to be released to Turkey instead of being returned to
Germany.


He said that in 2002, in the wake of the September 11, 2001
attacks on the United States which had partly been plotted on
German soil, the government was acutely aware of its obligation
to protect its people.


"Our biggest concern was to ensure the safety of 82 million
people living in Germany," he told Bild newspaper.


"What was wrong with returning him to Turkey?"


He added that he would only give his side of events in full when
he appears before the parliamentary inquiry.


On Thursday morning, the committee heard from Otto Schily who was
interior minister at the time of the alleged offer to release
Kurnaz.


Schily took some of the pressure off Steinmeier by accepting full
political responsibility for Berlin's handling of the case.


"Steinmeier had to rely on the proper, careful analysis of the
facts carried out by the interior ministry and the intelligence
services," Schily said, adding that the government's conduct had
been "perfectly correct."


Schily agreed with Uhrlau's assessment of Kurnaz, telling the
committee that "he was not harmless."


A former high-ranking US state department official said earlier
this month that despite Berlin's protests that it did not abandon
Kurnaz, the Schroeder government never requested his liberation.


The inquiry is also probing the case of Khaled el-Masri, a German
of Lebanese origin who was kidnapped by the CIA and held in
Afghanistan for five months. Masri has attempted unsuccessfully
to sue the CIA through the US courts.

