

The US embassy in Germany said on Friday it was increasing
security at US facilities in the country in response to "a
heightened threat situation", although Washington played down the
danger.


"US diplomatic and consular facilities in Germany are increasing
their security posture," a statement from the embassy said.


"We are taking these steps in response to a heightened threat
situation.  The US embassy encourages Americans in Germany to
increase their vigilance and take appropriate steps to bolster
their own personal security."


The embassy declined to give specific information about the
nature of the threat, but German newspaper Der Taggespiegel said
it would report on Saturday that an extremist Iraqi group, Ansar
al Sunna, was planning attacks on US citizens and facilities in
Germany.


It said members of the group had been spying on US facilities in
southern Germany.


Ansar al Sunna, which is linked to Al-Qaeda, has claimed
responsibility for attacks in Iraq including bombings in northern
Iraq in May 2005 in which 84 people were killed.


The State Department in Washington stressed however that the
embassy alert was not sparked by any "specific or credible"
information about threats directed against US interests in
Germany.


Spokesman Tom Casey said the alert was based on "generic,
unspecific information" that has been reflected in worldwide
travel cautions issued regularly by the State Department given
the rising threat of terrorism in recent years.


Casey also played down a link between the embassy alert and
alleged threats by Islamic militants operating in Germany.


"I'm not aware of anything specific along those lines that
prompted this," he said.


"Everybody needs to take a deep breath on this," he said.


German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, speaking in
Luxembourg, said: "There are indications that there is a concrete
threat to American institutions. We share the opinion of the
Americans."


A spokesman for the US embassy said the increased threat came
against the backdrop of warnings from the German federal police
last month that Germany faced a higher risk of terrorist attack
following an ultimatum from Islamic extremists for it to withdraw
its troops from Afghanistan.


That ultimatum was made by extremists who have been holding two
Germans hostage in Iraq for more than two months.


A little-known group called Kataeb Siham al-Haq (Righteous Arrows
Battalions) has threatened to execute Hannelore Krause, 61, and
her 20-year-old son Sinan unless its demands are met.


Germany has around 3,000 troops serving in the NATO-led force in
Afghanistan.

