

The Kenyan government is considering filing fresh charges against
a British aristocrat in connection to the 1995 killing of a game
warden in his ranch, a prosecutor said on Friday.


Thomas Cholmondeley, son of the fifth Baron Delamere and great-
grandson of Kenya's most prominent early settler, is currently
facing a murder trial for killing poacher Robert Njoya, 37, in
May 2006.


In 1995, the state dropped murder charges against Cholmondeley
after he killed warden Samson Ole Sasina on his property, about
90 kilometres (55 miles) northwest of Nairobi, saying it had no
sufficient evidence.


But senior State lawyer James Mungai told a Nairobi high court
that investigators have unearthed new evidence to file fresh
charges in relation to Sasina's death in 1995.


Mungai said the government will decided on the charges by June.


It was not clear whether the government will file man-slaughter
or murder charges against Cholmondeley. But if it files, the
aristocrat will be facing two suits for killing two men.


He faces death by hanging if convicted of murder, but Kenya has
not carried out a death sentence since 1987.


Cholomondeley's trial has revived deep-seated resentment of
wealthy whites, particularly since the murder charge against him
in the other killing of Sasina was dropped.


His cases have received particular attention because of his
family history.


His great-grandfather, the third Baron Delamere, was a key player
in Britain's colonisation of Kenya, overseeing the settlement of
the so-called "white highlands".


His grandfather achieved notoriety in 1955 when he married Diana
Broughton, a central figure in the murder of her lover Josslyn
Hay, the 22nd Earl of Errol.


Diana's first husband, Jock Broughton, was tried for the murder,
which took place on the outskirts of Nairobi in 1941, but was
acquitted in a sensational trial that rocked what was then
British East Africa.


The saga was recounted by James Fox in his book "White Mischief",
which was later made into a film.

