

India on Friday dropped star batsmen Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav
Ganguly for next month's one-day series in Bangladesh in an
attempt to rebuild after the World Cup debacle.


Bowlers Harbhajan Singh, Ajit Agarkar and Irfan Pathan were the
other casualties in an expected shake-up following India's first
round exit from the showpiece event.


Tendulkar and Ganguly were, however, selected for the two Test
matches that follow the three one-day internationals on the
23-day tour starting on May 10.


Veteran leg-spinner Anil Kumble, who quit one-day cricket after
the World Cup, was also picked for the Tests.


Tendulkar, the most successful limited-overs batsman in history
with 14,847 runs and 41 centuries, managed just 210 runs in nine
of his last 10 one-day innings.


The Mumbai batsman, who turns 34 next Tuesday, had scores of
seven, 57 not out and zero during the disappointing World Cup
campaign.


Chief selector Dilip Vengsarkar insisted both Tendulkar and
Ganguly were "rested", saying they will be considered for the
tour of England in July.


"We just want to give them a break, they are definitely not out
of contention for the future," he told reporters after the
selection meeting here.


Indian cricket board secretary Niranjan Shah added: "We did not
influence the selectors. If they feel Ganguly and Tendulkar need
to be rested, then it's up to them.


"Besides, this is the only tour where we can send other players."


It was evident the selectors were looking beyond the established
stars after being ordered by the cricket board to pick a "young
team" for the Bangladesh tour.


Uncapped 21-year-old Bengal batsman Manoj Tewari was selected for
the one- dayers, while left-arm spinner Rajesh Pawar, 27, was
added to the Test squad.


Leg-spinner Piyush Chawla, left-arm seamer Rudra Pratap Singh,
off-spinner Ramesh Powar and batsmen Gautam Gambhir and Dinesh
Mongia also got the nod for the shorter version.


Aggressive opener Virender Sehwag was retained for the one-day
matches despite scoring just 270 runs in his last 10 matches, but
was sacked from the Test squad.


India, the 1983 World Cup champions and 2003 finalists, were
beaten by Bangladesh and Sri Lanka to bow out in the preliminary
stage of the tournament in the Caribbean.


Former Test star-turned-commentator Ravi Shastri will be interim
coach for the tour as officials search for a replacement for Greg
Chappell, who did not extend his two-year tenure after the World
Cup.


The first two one-dayers will be played in Dhaka on May 10 and 12
followed by the third in the port city of Chittagong on May 15.


The Test matches will be held in Chittagong (May 18-22) and Dhaka
(May 25-29).


Test squad: Rahul Dravid (capt), Wasim Jaffar, Sachin Tendulkar,
Venkatsai Laxman, Sourav Ganguly, Yuvraj Singh, Mahendra Singh
Dhoni, Dinesh Karthick, Anil Kumble, Ramesh Powar, Rajesh Pawar,
Shanthakumaran Sreesanth, Zaheer Khan, Vikram Rajvir Singh, Munaf
Patel.


One-day squad: Rahul Dravid (capt), Gautam Gambhir, Robin
Uthappa, Virender Sehwag, Yuvraj Singh, Manoj Tewari, Dinesh
Mongia, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Dinesh Karthick, Shanthakumaran
Sreesanth, Munaf Patel, Zaheer Khan, Rudra Pratap Singh, Piyush
Chawla, Ramesh Powar.


Tour cricket manager: Ravi Shastri

