

England may have nothing at stake in their last World Cup match
against the West Indies here on Saturday, but skipper Michael
Vaughan says they need to win for coach Duncan Fletcher.


Fletcher announced his resignation on Thursday after an eight-
year stint which saw England win the Ashes at home in 2005 before
losing them again last winter.


But he had little reason to be satisfied with his last World Cup
assignment as England failed to qualify for the semi-finals after
under-performing in big matches in the second round.


England have so far posted just one win against a Test-playing
nation when they beat Bangladesh in a Super Eights game here,
their other victories coming against debutants Ireland, Canada
and Kenya.


Vaughan said he felt sad the coach was leaving the job "not in
great circumstances" and it was now up to his side to put in a
winning performance in his last match.


"He has had a huge influence on my career, so it's a sad moment
for me. I know he has influenced my game a lot and Saturday is
the last chance and we hope to produce one last performance for
him," said the England skipper.


"I think he needs fresh challenges, a fresh start. I am sure many
people around the world will say he is among the top coaches. He
has been a fantastic coach and I think he still has a lot to
offer to cricket."


England enjoyed considerable successes under Fletcher, including
a record eight successive Test victories and Test series wins in
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, the West Indies and South Africa.


Their best in recent months came in Australia when they won a
triangular one-day series involving New Zealand and the hosts.
England also rose to number two in the ICC Test rankings under
Fletcher.


The England captain described Fletcher as an "outstanding coach"
and an "outstanding person".


"In eight years you become like a family and you develop a
friendship. It's a sad moment when an outstanding coach and an
outstanding person is leaving you," he said.


Vaughan said he did not think anyone had done more for English
cricket than Fletcher who was succeeded on Friday by Peter
Moores.


"It will be nice to play a good game of cricket and have a
victory for him," said Vaughan, who himself is struggling in the
ongoing tournament with just 130 runs in eight matches.


"Now the pressure is off, but we are desperate to win the
farewell game for Duncan and for all our supporters.


"We know we are not going to be in the semi-finals, but we are
going to try and win the game to give them something to cheer
about. We have not played well as individuals and we now have to
make sure we put in a good performance."


Vaughan said he was looking forward to working with Moores.


"His (Moores) record is very good and I think he is very similar
to Fletcher -- forward thinking. I am sure he will do a great
job," said the England captain.


"I am looking forward to working with him. He has huge enthusiasm
for the game. I like the way he thinks about the game and I am
sure he will bring a lot to England cricket."


The match will also be the last international appearance for West
Indies batting superstar Brian Lara.


"He (Lara) is an outstanding player and has enjoyed playing
against England," said Vaughan.


"The atmosphere will be great. It's England v West Indies in
Barbados .. full house, Fletcher's last game, Lara's last game.
It should be a great spectacle."

