

World oil prices slid this week on news that US refiners were
rushing to convert crude into gasoline, or petrol, ahead of the
driving season, but losses were limited by geopolitical concerns.


Tin enjoyed another record high, since its re-introduction to the
London market in 1989, as investors seized on news of low stocks
and production problems.


Many commodities received a boost from the troubled US dollar,
which steered close to a historical low against the European
single currency. A weak dollar increases demand for dollar-
denominated commodities, such as gold, since they become cheaper
for buyers using other currencies.


The euro touched 1.3637 dollars on Friday -- not far off the
December 2004 historic peak of 1.3666 dollars -- as currency
investors were lured by the increased chances of higher eurozone
interest rates, dealers said.


Many raw materials pared gains after China revealed that first-
quarter economic growth came in at a blistering 11.1 percent. The
data sparked some concern that the Asian giant might increase
interest rates and thus crimp its voracious demand for
commodities.


OIL: Crude prices retreated as US refiners ramped up their output
and offset the impact of a heavier-than-expected weekly drop in
gasoline stocks.


Petrol is a critical market focus ahead of the driving season,
starting next month, when many Americans hit the roads for their
summer holidays.


US crude futures had slumped by 1.30 dollars on Thursday as
refiners accelerated production.


Meanwhile, American gasoline reserves fell 2.7 million barrels
last week, the 10th consecutive drop and heavier than forecasts
for a drop of 1.9 million.


Concerns about Iran's controversial nuclear programme limited
price falls.


The UN atomic watchdog said late on Wednesday that Iran, the
world's fourth- biggest crude producer, had started feeding
uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has
installed more than 1,300 centrifuges.


Prompted by fears that Iran is secretly developing nuclear
weapons, the UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on
the Middle Eastern nation for failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Analysts are worried that the Islamic Republic, which is the
fourth-biggest global crude producer, could respond by slashing
exports.


Elsewhere, the market shrugged off concerns that China's
impressive economic growth during the first quarter could result
in Beijing raising rates and thus reduce crude demand.


The Asian powerhouse is the world's second largest energy
consumer after the United States.


Oil prices recovered slightly on Friday amid violence in Nigeria,
which is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter. Traders fear
that unrest in the run-up to Nigeria's presidential elections
this weekend may disrupt supplies from Africa's biggest crude-
producing country.


By Friday in London, a barrel of Brent North Sea crude for
delivery in June plunged to 66.30 dollars, compared with 69.16
dollars a week earlier.


In New York, a barrel of crude for delivery in May sank to 62.70
dollars from 63.90 dollars.


GOLD: The price of gold breached 690 dollars an ounce for the
first time in eleven months owing to the weak US dollar.


Gold struck 693.99 dollars per ounce -- the highest level since
May 18, 2006.


The metal pulled back following the Chinese growth data, but
found further support from the troubled dollar late in the week.


"Concerns about the Chinese economy may prompt some further risk
reduction in the coming sessions, particularly if the dollar
begins to recover," warned James Moore of TheBullionDesk.com.


On the London Bullion Market, gold prices rose to 691.40 dollars
an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 681.75 dollars a week
earlier.


SILVER: Silver prices took the biggest hit from the strong
Chinese data.


Prices stooped as low as 13.575 dollars per ounce on Thursday,
which was last seen in early April, on concerns over demand for
the precious metal.


On the London Bullion Market, silver prices eased to 13.87
dollars an ounce at Friday's late fixing, from 13.88 dollars a
week earlier.


PALLADIUM AND PLATINUM: Sister metals platinum and palladium
surged higher after news that funds indexed against the metals
will be launched in London and Zurich.


Exchange-traded fund products allow traders to invest money in
the commodities sector, without trading on the futures market and
committing themselves to the long-term delivery of the physical
product.


ETF products tend to generate a sharp increase in demand by
investors, which pushes up the price of the underlying physical
asset.


Palladium prices reached 386 dollars an ounce -- the highest
level since May 2006. Platinum rose to 1,332 dollars an ounce,
the highest point since last November.


On the London Platinum and Palladium Market, platinum increased
to 1,317 dollars an ounce at the late fixing Friday, from 1,269 a
week earlier.


Palladium climbed to 382 dollars an ounce, from 371.50 dollars.


BASE METALS: Tin prices struck a record high and copper multi-
year pinnacles, but many base metals pulled back after news of
strong Chinese economic growth.


Tin and copper found support from dwindling global stockpiles and
supply problems in major producer Indonesia.


A tonne of tin for delivery in three months leapt to 15,100
dollars on the London Metal Exchange (LME) -- the highest point
since 1989 when the metal was re-introduced on the market.


Copper for three-month delivery on the LME rose as high as 8,100
dollars per tonne -- the highest reading since September last
year. The metal is used in plumbing and the manufacture of
electrical cables.


On Friday, three-month copper prices surged to 8,000 dollars a
tonne on the LME, from 7,800.50 dollars a week earlier.


Three-month aluminium prices gained to 2,856.50 dollars a tonne
from 2,805.50 dollars.


Three-month nickel prices eased to 48,850 dollars a tonne from
49,900 dollars.


Three-month lead prices slid to 1,976 dollars a tonne from 2,025
dollars.


Three-month zinc prices climbed to 3,701 dollars a tonne from
3,505.50 dollars.


Three-month tin prices pulled back to 13,900 dollars a tonne from
14,350 dollars.


GRAINS AND SOYA: Grains and soya prices enjoyed mixed fortunes,
with wheat gaining ground in Chicago as traders tracked the
weather in major producers the United States and Australia.


Wheat prices have soared in recent weeks on forecasts of falling
supplies amid freezing weather in the US.


"Investors are still trying to see how much damage the freeze has
caused to the wheat. We're not going to know precisely until late
May or the beginning of June," said Allendale analyst Joe Victor.


"The market is (also) very concerned about the very severe
drought in Australia, which might be the most severe since 1995."


He added: "Next week, it's all going to be about the weather and
we might expect new delays in the planting process."


By Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of wheat for
May delivery jumped to 4.95 dollars a bushel, from 4.79 dollars a
week earlier.


Maize for May delivery eased to 3.63 dollars a bushel, from 3.69
dollars.


May-dated soyabean meal -- used in animal feed -- dropped to 7.21
dollars, from 7.38 dollars.


On the LIFFE, London's futures exchange, the price per tonne of
wheat for May delivery fell to 98.75 pounds, compared with 100
pounds the previous week -- which marked the highest finish since
April 2004.


COFFEE: Coffee prices traded within a narrow range.


"There is strong demand for the Robusta (coffee) from the
industry, but the upside is capped due to producers selling above
1,600 dollars," said Michael Davies, an analyst with the Sucden
brokerage in London.


By Friday on the LIFFE, Robusta quality for May delivery rose to
1,592 dollars a tonne, from 1,579 dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, Arabica for May delivery eased to 110.90 US cents a
pound, from 112.95 cents.


COCOA: Cocoa prices fell beneath 1,000 dollars in London on
profit-taking, with losses capped by prospects of a poor harvest
in key producer Ivory Coast.


"The fundamental outlook for cocoa remains positive, as a result
of tight global supplies and robust demand," Davies added.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price of cocoa for May delivery
dropped to 997 pounds a tonne, from 1,002 pounds a week earlier.


On the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), the May contract fell to
1,861 dollars a tonne, from 1,865 dollars.


SUGAR: Sugar prices fell heavily on trader concerns over "a large
global sugar surplus," according to Davies.


By Friday on the LIFFE, the price per tonne of white sugar for
August delivery fell to 311.20 dollars, compared with 325.50
dollars a week earlier.


On the NYBOT, the price of unrefined sugar for July delivery
decreased to 9.57 US cents a pound, from 9.99 cents.

