

Japanese businessman Hirokazu Ota, the leader of Sun Myung Moon's
Unification Church in Paraguay, was freed Friday following a
19-day abduction and a 140,000-dollar ransom payment, police
said.


Ota, 62, and two Paraguayans abducted at the same time, policeman
Rafael Ramos Balmori and his girlfriend, teacher Nancy Gimenez,
were freed in good health in the city of Presidente Franco near
the triple border with Brazil and Argentina just after 0600 GMT,
police added.


Authorities took the Paraguayans to the home of Gimenez's family,
and Ota to his country's embassy in the Paraguayan capital. After
about an hour Ota went to his home in Asuncion.


Though in good health, Ota, who also heads the real estate
concern Victoria SA which belongs to the church, was visibly
tired by the ordeal and had lost some weight, a Japanese embassy
spokesman said.


Two weeks ago Ota's secretary, Japanese national Sawako Takayama
de Yamaguchi, was released with a cell phone with which
authorities were directed to negotiate the release of the three
other hostages.


"We understand that 140,000 dollars were paid for the ransom,"
abductions prosecutor Rogelio Ortuzar told reporters.


The ransom was delivered in the area of Minga Guazu, and police
launched a hunt for the kidnappers.


So far, 25 people have been detained in relation to the
abductions and 13 police searches ordered, Ortuzar added.
"Suspects are bring rigorously questioned," he said.


A police chief in Alto Parana, meanwhile, acknowledged the
kidnappers could have fled to Brazil over the bridge between the
countries at Ciudad del Este and Foz de Iguacu.


The suspects include former members of state security forces,
authorities said.


President Nicanor Duarte 10 days ago ordered a purge of the
police leadership in Parana, amid concerns over how the force was
being led.


An armed group of bandits demanding a ransom snatched the two
Japanese members of the church and two locals on April 1 in
Caaguazu, about 200 kilometres (120 miles) east of the capital
Asuncion.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso welcomed the safe release of
the abductees in the porous crime-ridden area on the borders with
Brazil and Argentina.


"I would like to express my heartfelt joy for the victims, their
families and all other people concerned," Aso said in the
statement.


"The government of Japan at this occasion strongly condemns
kidnapping as a contemptible act."


Prosecutors had been offering a 20,000-dollar reward for
information on Ota's whereabouts and an elite Paraguayan unit was
deployed this week to patrol the tri-border region, known as a
haven for smugglers and other criminals.


But the Unification Church in Paraguay earlier this week urged
the police to step aside and negotiated with the bandits itself.


Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System reported from Paraguay that a
total of 300,000 dollars was paid for the release of both Ota and
his secretary.

