

Bennett King is uncertain over his future as West Indies coach in
the wake of his team's disappointing World Cup campaign which saw
them failing to qualify for the semi-finals.


Asked what his plans were after captain Brian Lara announced his
retirement from international cricket, and Duncan Fletcher
stepped down as England coach, King said he was constantly
considering his options.


"With coaching, you are never quite sure what the bosses are
looking for, you are never sure when they have a different vision
of taking the team forward and you may not be part of that," King
said ahead of Saturday's match aginst England, which ends the
Super Eights stages.


Just like Lara, King also came under fire after the West Indies
lost five of their Super Eights matches, only managing to beat
Bangladesh on Tuesday - a win which earned them a chance to
finish among the top six.


King last week urged the authorities to improve facilities so the
team can match other top international sides.


"The next thing after the England match will be to get a review
of the World Cup with the cricket committee and plan for the next
four years," he said.


King, a former Australian cricket academy coach who took over as
the West Indies coach in 2004, said it was necessary for his team
to win the match on at Kensington Oval Saturday before their tour
of England in May.


"We have got a tour of England coming up, and it's important that
we play well against them on home soil, on a track that suits our
bowlers. We are looking for a competitive performance, and hoping
to come away with a win."


The West Indies play four Tests and three one-day internationals
on the tour which starts with the first Test at Lord's from May
17.


King said with Lara's retirement on Saturday, it will close a
chapter in  West Indies cricket history.


"He was a genuis, a person who could hit the same ball to any
area of the ground. He is very resilient, and a very tough guy.
His mental fortitude is among the best I have seen," said King.


"Tactically, he was a bit different from what people expected,
but with the side we have and the skills in the side, he had to
try different things. He was prepared to take a risk, and I
encouraged him to take a risk.


"With his retirement, we are losing a wonderful cricketer. You
don't want to be creating robots, and he wasn't a robot, that's
for sure."


Commenting on Fletcher's departure, King said coaching was a
difficult job.


"Coaching is not easy. The public always want results," he said.

