

Sir Alex Ferguson fears Cristiano Ronaldo could be targeted by
Middlesbrough as Manchester United attempt to tighten their grip
at the head of the Premiership.


The Portugese winger has found himself at the centre of a series
of controversies during three fractious meetings between the two
clubs this season including a trio of hotly disputed penalty
decisions that have gone United's way.


And Boro winger James Morrison was sent off in the club's FA Cup
replay for taking a wild hack at Ronaldo as the United man
attempted to run down time in the dying seconds of a 1-0 win.


That incident triggered an outburst from Morrison's team-mate
George Boateng who claimed the Portugese could expect to get hurt
if he continued to embarrass his opponents with his skills.


United manager Ferguson admits he is disappointed the FA did not
take action against Boateng  and is now concerned his side's
hopes of challenging for the league title, Champions League and
FA Cup could be hit if Gareth Southgate's side adopt an overly
physical approach to the game.


"I'm fearing the worst myself about what could happen, I must say
that, because we've got important games coming up and I don't
think they'll be messing about," Ferguson said.


"I think they have a paranoia about the boy and I think they will
be aggressive towards him.


"I don't think Cristiano will be bothered by it. But it's
unfortunate and what surprised me was that the FA didn't write to
Boateng about his remarks because I think that was really
provocative.


"I think the fantastic quality Ronaldo has is that he is prepared
to hold the ball at any moment and in any tight situation because
of the skill he has. He wants to hold the ball and to attack
defenders. That's what he is in this world to do. It's then up to
the referee to decide whether players who are kicking him are
fouling him.


"It sets the game up with a different tone tomorrow, that's the
problem. I don't know who the referee is but I think the
important thing is to express ourselves in the normal way, play
our football and hopefully that takes us to the win we need."


And he added: "I haven't thought of leaving Cristiano out. Simply
because we want to win the league and so we want our best players
out on the pitch. And I'll be playing my strongest team
tomorrow."


Ferguson is desperate for his side to sign off with a victory and
maintain the three point advantage over Chelsea before his team
resume their Champions League challenge against AC Milan at Old
Trafford on Tuesday.


The Scot admits United have turned the tables on Jose Mourinho's
side in the Premiership and while he remains hopeful over
repeating the 1999 treble success, Ferguson admits that
recapturing the domestic league title for the first time in four
years remains his number one priority.


"You start the season hoping you are going to win a major trophy
and there is a possibility we can win none of them," he said.
"With an immense amount of luck we could win three. But if we win
the league, I'll be happy with that.


"I think Chelsea maybe expected us to be on their tails this
season. I think they expected us to be the main challengers, Jose
said that early on. So we have turned that around and they are
chasing us so I couldn't ask for a better position to be honest.


"You've always got to enjoy this part of the game. We are
involved in everything which is terrific. And that's the best
thing for me, I'm enjoying watching them. Over the years no
matter which team has won the league there has always been
moments of nervousness but they seem to be enjoying it which is
good to see.


"Any time we have done well we have always had a bit of luck. I
think that the luck we need now is to keep this group fit again
for the rest of the season and if we can do that then we have a
really good chance. I know Jose was praying we got injuries and
we got them, so we did him a favour that way but hopefully
there's no more."

