

Former South Africa captain  Ali Bacher on Friday said Graeme
Smith's men can win the World Cup if they maintain the ruthless
form they showed in their destruction of England.


The Proteas swept past England with a nine-wicket win here
Tuesday to set up a mouth-watering semi-final clash with
defending champions Australia at St Lucia on April 25.


Bacher, also a former South Africa cricket board chief and who
knows how to beat Australia having recorded 4-0 win as captain in
1970, said South Africa can beat Australia.


"If South Africa play as they did against England, I can't see
any team stopping them, not even Australia," said Bacher.


After losing to Bangladesh in the Super Eights, South Africa
crushed England in a must-win match. They bowled out Michael
Vaughan's men for a paltry 154 with medium-pacer Andrew Hall
returning career-best figures of 5-18.


Smith then completed the rout with a blistering 58-ball 89 not
out to see his team through in the 20th over, a display Bacher
feels can help make the Proteas world champions.


"That is the way to approach a game. You shouldn't give your
opponents any chance. The South Africans were clinical, and that
is what will be needed in the semi-final," said Bacher, the man
behind the successful World Cup management in South Africa four
years ago.


Bacher hoped Australia's unbeaten run in the World Cup comes to
an end sooner than later.


"It is high time South Africa bring the Australian victory march
at the tournament to an end," said Bacher of an Australia run
which has them win the last two World Cups in 1999 and 2003 and
bidding for a hat-trick here.


In contrast, the South Africans have never progressed to the
final, losing to England in the 1992 semis, and then bowing out
on slender run-rate after their semi-final against Australia
ended in a tie in 1999.


They lost to Australia in the preliminary rounds in the current
World Cup.


In 2003, they misinterpreted the rain rules in a match against
Sri Lanka and failed to get beyond the first round.

