

Bells were set to toll in the United States Friday marking a day
of mourning for 32 students and teachers shot dead on a Virginia
university campus by a deranged student.


The day of religious services and commemorations comes amid
burning questions over how South Korea-born Cho Seung-Hui, who
had been treated for mental health problems, was able to buy two
guns and ammunition, and continue his studies unchecked at
Virginia Tech.


"I ask that everyone in Virginia pause at noon on Friday to offer
prayers of support for the victims, their families, and for all
those affected by this tragedy," Virginia Governor Tim Kaine
said.


In bright sunshine early Friday, residents emerged from their
homes wearing the university's trademark maroon and orange
colors.


Stores have also reported heavy sales of gear such as football
jerseys, T-shirts and pullovers bearing the school's "Hokie"
nickname.


"We are all Hokies now," was the motto for the day, scrawled on
posters in Virginia storefronts and memorial websites on the
Internet.


Masses, prayers and memorial services were being planned around
the country on Friday by the university's alumni, with a special
prayer service for the victims to be held on Sunday in the
Washington National Cathedral in the US capital.


In Michigan, the Lebanese American Chamber of Commerce was to
stage a candlelight vigil late Friday for Lebanese-American
students Reema Samaha and Ross Alameddine, both mowed down in
Cho's hail of gunfire.


The governors of Georgia and Colorado have also urged churches to
ring their bells at noon eastern time (1600 GMT) on Friday.


The memorial day falls on the eighth anniversary of the massacre
at Columbine High School in Colorado, and one day after the 12th
anniversary of the bombing of a government office building in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma that killed 168.


In a nation still healing from the September 11, 2001 attacks,
Monday's killing spree at Virginia Tech was also written into the
annals of US history as the country's deadliest school shooting.


In a ranting, hate-filled final manifesto sent to a US television
network, Cho made reference to the two Columbine killers who on
April 20, 1999 killed 12 classmates and a teacher, before dying
themselves.


In the search for answers to Monday's carnage in Virginia, Kaine,
the state's governor, has set up an independent panel to
investigate the massacre.


Fellow students and professors described Cho as a sullen loner
and his violent writings and intimidating manner raised alarm
bells among some professors long before the attacks.


He was committed to a mental institution in December 2005 after
one of two stalking incidents, but was released the next day for
outpatient treatment after he was deemed not to be a danger to
others.


But in the disturbing videos recorded before his bloody spree and
broadcast late Wednesday on national television, a clearly
unbalanced Cho brandishes the murder weapons and paints himself
as a long-suffering martyr like Jesus Christ.


Kaine said the panel would seek to discover "everything we know"
about Cho, including his dealings with the mental health system
and the type of treatment he received.


The panel will also investigate the two-and-half-hour gap between
the first shooting at a campus dormitory Monday morning, in which
two people were killed, and Cho's rampage through a classroom
complex where he killed 30 others and himself.


As the grief-stricken families struggle to come to terms with the
tragedy and the sudden loss of sons and daughters, the first
funerals of victims took place on Thursday.


In Israel, family members attended the burial of 76-year-old
mathematics lecturer Liviu Librescu, hailed as a hero after dying
while trying to protect his students.


The university's small Indonesian community also gathered at
Blacksburg's McCoy funeral home to honor fallen colleague Partahi
"Mora" Lumbantoruan, an engineering doctoral student from
Sumatra, Indonesia.


Colleges and schools across the US have meanwhile gone on
heightened alert worried about copycat events, amid a number of
false alarms around the country on Thursday.

