

The mother of a convicted September 11-plotter and one whose son
died in the attack united here on Friday to call for women to
promote dialogue as a way to prevent terrorism.


"We have something in common: we are mothers. And we must do
something so the suffering will not continue," said Aicha el
Wafi, whose son Zacarias Moussaoui was convicted of the 2001
World Trade Center attacks in New York.


Her friend Phyllis Rodriguez, whose son was killed in the attack,
added: "This friendship is... conceived as unusual but it's more
common than you think.


"People are crossing borders to hold hands with those whom our
governments may be telling us are our enemies."


The two women met during Moussaoui's trial after el Wafi decided
she must meet the families of victims "to talk to them and
understand how we came to this", she told a press conference in
Vienna.


They were speaking ahead of a discussion on Sunday organised by
the Vienna-based non-governmental organisation "Women without
Borders" and entitled "Women vs Terror: strategies for a culture
of peace in a climate of fear".


"We can introduce the idea of soft power, focusing on the power
of dialogue, focusing on the power of understanding... and use
words instead of weapons" to fight terrorism, said Edit
Schlaffer, director of Women without Borders.


She highlighted women's role in civil society and in educating
children and communities, thus preventing prejudice and
discrimination which can "fuel violent conflict".


Another panelist, former CNN reporter Anita Pratap, added: "Women
can play a role and they must play a role simply because, as in
all situations of terror, poverty, discrimination and social
ills, women bear the brunt of it."


Women tend to suffer most from the effects of terrorism and
violence when their homes or families are destroyed, the
panelists argued.


They said that as mothers, women also place more value on life
and are more committed to peace, making them seek alternatives to
the use of force, which is favoured by nation states.


"Women's instincts are non-violent and nurturing," Rodriguez
said, adding that women can lead the way with peaceful solutions
but that men and women must ultimately work together to prevent
violence.


El Wafi concluded: "If we do not respect each other, if we do not
know each other, we will fear each other... and I do not want to
live in a world where I am afraid."

