

One of the most lingering questions raised by this week's US
university shooting is how someone with a documented history of
psychiatric problems and stalking was able to buy two handguns.


Deranged killer Cho Seung-Hui bought his two guns after passing
an instant background check that failed to raise any red flags
about his history of mental illness, anti-social behavior and
run-ins with police and his university.


While the background check should signal anyone who has been
declared mentally incompetent or been committed to a mental
institution, despite being ordered by a court to seek psychiatric
treatment in 2005 and being declared an immediate danger to
himself, Cho was not on the system.


Ladd Everitt, a gun control advocate from the Coalition to Stop
Gun Violence, said the failure to stop Cho partly lay in a system
that only required a basic check against a computer database.


"Even a cursory screening process would have caught Cho when he
went to purchase his guns. If there was any contact, even a
single phone call to local law enforcement when he went to buy
his guns, he would have been stopped."


"There was so much in this guy's history at this point," he told
AFP. "There was a long running record indicating that this kid
was going off the rails."


States set their own gun laws, meaning that while some allow
sales that can be completed in minutes, people in New York or New
Jersey need to apply for a permit that requires character
references and deeper background checks.


"It's a process that we can say with 100 percent confidence would
have screened out an individual like Cho, where the warning signs
were literally jumping off the page," Everitt said.


"It's not just one or two individuals that knew about Cho. We
know that students and teachers and law enforcement and Virginia
district court all realized that this kid had serious problems,"
he said.


"The warning signs were so glaring. Even a cursory screening
would have stopped him."


Monday's shooting at Virginia Tech University has inevitably
sparked calls from certain quarters for increased gun control,
just as the Columbine High School shooting did eight years ago on
Friday.


Specific measures being floated could involve tighter rules on
students or those under 25 from buying guns and improving
background checks or renewing a federal ban on assault weapons
that lapsed in 2004.


Everitt said one major problem was that perhaps even fewer than
10 states were submitting mental health data to federal
authorities to be used in background checks, meaning too many
people were slipping through.


"They're catching a lot of people, but they're also allowing a
lot of people to fall through the cracks."


One obstacle to change is the apparent lack of political will to
address the issue. Besides a general outpouring of sympathy since
Monday's shooting, few major politicians have openly called for
tighter gun control.


While the Republican party is traditionally associated with pro-
gun groups, the Democrats also receive substantial donations from
gun lobby.


The likelihood of any major change looks slight since Democrats
have been reluctant to risk alienating floating voters,
especially in conservative areas where they have recently notched
up gains, by pushing gun control legislation.


Everitt said he was not optimistic that legislation would be
passed in the near future at a federal level to clamp down on gun
violence, but that state measures were more likely.


"I think the first thing this country needs to do is have a
serious debate about gun policy," he said, accusing the pro-gun
lobby of stymying the debate and fostering a "with us or against
us" mentality.


"We just need to start a debate and get past that black and white
type thinking," he said.


The issue of tightening background checks and clamping down on
instant sales of guns was one of the most likely issues to be
dealt with first, along with debating a renewed ban on assault
weapons, he said.


The Washington Post said in an opinion piece that the whole gun
debate was mired in the entrenched positions of two opposing
sides and asked: "Why do we have the same futile argument every
time there is a mass killing?" it asked.


"This is a stupid argument, driven by the stupid politics of gun
control."

