

Mohammed Shaalan waited in front of his computer on Monday for
his son to connect to the web cam, but 32-year-old Walid never
did. He was dead.


The Egyptian was a mature student at Virginia Tech and was one of
the 32 people killed in the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


"Dad, I'll call you tomorrow, he said on Sunday. But Walid didn't
call. He was mown down in the Virginia Tech massacre as he
protected a friend," Shaalan said on Friday in his son's bedroom
in the town of Zaqaziq, 90 kilometres (56 miles) north of Cairo.


Dressed in a white jelaba, Mohammed, 66, waited for Walid's
coffin to come home. He remembered the last time he had seen his
son.


"It was the night before. We talked on the Internet by webcam. He
said 'I'll call you tomorrow and let you know how the exam went.'
I waited for a long time, and then I heard the news."


Walid had been studying for eight months for his doctorate as an
irrigation engineer, having already gained an honours degree in
Egypt.


"He's my eldest, my pride and joy. My alter ago -- just look how
alike we are, like two drops of water," said Shaalan, holding a
photograph of Walid with his younger brother Ahmed and sister
Dina. His eyes filled with tears.


"Yesterday I got a phone call from one of his friends. He told me
this: 'Be proud of your son -- he died protecting me. I owe him
my life.'


"I am proud, but I am also so sad to have lost my son in this
way."


He was very bitter that guns are so easily available in the
United States.


"My son held the Americans in high esteem and considered them a
civilised people who did not believe in the language of arms,"
Shaalan said.


"But it is a grave mistake that guns are available to anyone,
because every society contains sick people. In a developed and
democratic country the people mustn't have guns since the police
are there to protect them."


In their modest apartment, Walid's mother and wife were stricken
with grief. Their eyes puffy from crying, they accepted
condolences from other women dressed like them in black. The
victim's 16-month-old son, Khaled, clung to his mother.


Walid's remains will arrive at Cairo airport on Saturday before
being brought home to Zaqaziq for burial.


"He insisted that I continue my studies to get my master's
degree," said his engineer wife, Amira, 27, before lapsing into
silence once more.


"My son was a true science buff," added Walid's father. "When I
looked at him I saw knowledge in his eyes. He was supposed to
come back in May to enrol for another doctorate in Egypt before
returning to the US to continue his thesis.


"I wanted Walid to become a learned man, well-known for
scientific research in Egypt. But..."


Mohammed Shaalan was unable to say anything more.

