

An inquiry into Pakistan's shock exit from the cricket World Cup
has found no evidence that any players were involved in match-
fixing, the head of the probe said Friday.


The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) ordered the inquiry after the
1992 champions were dumped out of the competition, losing to
minnows Ireland in the first round, sparking allegations that
games could have been thrown.


"The inquiry has been completed and there is no evidence of
match-fixing against any player," inquiry committee chief Ijaz
Butt told AFP.


He said details of the committee's report would be submitted to
PCB chief Nasim Ashraf next week.


The committee interviewed nearly 40 players, officials and
retired PCB functionaries during its two-week hearing.


Butt also rejected a claim by former PCB chairman Shaharyar Khan,
who said in March that parts of international cricket matches are
fixed and the practice known as "spot-fixing" happens on a
regular basis.


"There is no evidence of any targetted match-fixing and
Shaharyar's statement was found to be incorrect," Butt said.


The fixing allegations intensified in the wake of the murder of
Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer hours after the defeat to Ireland.


Pakistan lost their opening match to the West Indies by 54 runs
before a humiliating three-wicket defeat at the hands of
debutants Ireland sent them crashing out of the World Cup on
March 17.


Butt also criticised Pakistan media manager Pervez Mir for
accusing the team of focusing on their devotion to Islam, instead
of concentrating on the game.


"It was a stupid statement from P.J. Mir," Butt told reporters
after the hearing in Islamabad.


"If a player wants to offer prayers in a mosque and wants to give
some donation for a good cause, it does not mean his attention is
diverted from cricket," he said.


All-rounder Shahid Afridi, who made a statement before the
committee Friday along with fellow player Umar Gul, told
reporters after the hearing that the entire team was responsible
for the poor showing in the World Cup.


"We failed to perform," he said.

