

Former African leaders are ready to help South African efforts to
resolve the political and economic crises in Zimbabwe, ex-
Mozambican president Joaquim Chissano said Friday.


"We support the efforts which are being made by the (southern
African) heads of states (but) we are at their disposal in case
they want to invite us to join in these efforts," Chissano, a
widely respected figure in Africa, told AFP in an interview.


The 14-nation Southern African Development Community (SADC) last
month appointed South African President Thabo Mbeki to facilitate
talks between President Robert Mugabe's ruling party and the main
opposition Movement for Democratic Change.


"Let them (SADC) work first and if they encounter any
difficulties then we can advise on how to come out of the
difficulties," said Chissano, who once headed the African Union
and was used by continental leaders to defuse crises in various
regions.


Zimbabwe is reeling under social, political and economic crises
battling  four- digit inflation, sky-high unemployment and food
shortages.


Mugabe, who has been in power since his southern African country
gained independence from Britain in 1980, has meanwhile seen his
standing among many plummet from a liberation hero to a despot
who brooks no opposition.


The 83-year-old leader and his coterie face sanctions from the
West and critics who accuse him of stifling democracy and human
rights raised an outcry recently after government forces recently
arrested and assaulted opposition leaders.


Chissano, one of the few African leaders to have voluntarily
stepped down from office, was appointed by the African Union in
2005 to try and help solve Zimbabwe's political problems but
Mugabe rejected him as mediator.


In December he became the UN special envoy to help end the
20-year conflict in northern Uganda which has claimed tens of
thousands of lives and displaced around two million.


Chissano, whose persuasive skills are legendary, managed last
weekend to get the Ugandan government and the rebel Lord's
Resistance Army (LRA) to renew their ceasefire and agree to
resume peace talks to end the brutal insurgency.


The rebels had pulled out of the talks in south Sudan's capital
Juba in December, requesting a new venue and mediation after they
lost faith in the southern Sudanese mediators.


"We have succeeded to bring back the negotiations to Juba. We
have created conditions for the talks to continue non-stop," said
Chissano.


Since leaving office in 2005, Chissano has set up a club of
former heads of states and government to help advance post-
conflict peace-building and reconciliation efforts in Africa.


The South Africa-based Africa Forum has 35 members.

