

Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal both extended record runs on
Friday to move a win away from a possible repeat finals clash at
the Monte Carlo Masters.


Federer distinguished himself as a 30-million-dollar man in
tennis winning his 500th match to coast into the semi-finals over
David Ferrer 6-4, 6-0.


It was the top seed's sixth victory without defeat against a man
who can offer little to turn the tide.


Rafael Nadal, winner of the last two editions, hammered Philipp
Kohlschreiber of Germany 6-2, 6-3 to reach 65 consecutive clay
court victories. The German saved five match points  before
falling.


The Spaniard who owns a pair of Roland Garros trophies has not
been beaten on clay since April, 2005. He stopped Federer for the
title here in 2006.


"Every match I play is difficult now," said Nadal. "All players
want to beat the number 2. It was another tough one today but I'm
looking forward to the semi- finals."


Nadal will Saturday face Czech tenth seed Tomas Berdych, who woke
up to sweep the last dozen games as he overhauled Sweden's Robin
Soderling 5-7, 6-3, 6-0.


"It's step by step," Berdych said of his recovery. "The start
wasn't so good, but then things changed. I'm really happy that I
can sit here and trying to prepare for tomorrow's semi-finals."


Berdych lifted a Masters Series title last November, winning in
Paris. He owns an ATP clay trophy from Palermo as well as three
at the lower level.


Federer takes on Spain's two-time champion Juan Carlos Ferrero,
who defeated France's Richard Gasquet 5-7, 7-5, 6-2 and goes
sporting a 3-6 deficit in the series.


Federer, 25, is only the second active player with 500 match
wins, trailing Spain's Carlos Moya, aged 30, who has 516.


"David's an excellent grinder and baseline player, and if he
plays very well it's so hard to beat him," said the modest Swiss.


"But I always find a way against him to overpower him from the
baseline and just have enough variety to maybe frustrate him a
bit.


"When I needed good shots they came along, and today was a really
good match so I'm really pleased."


Though he reigns atop the sport, the 25-year-old can remember his
first paycheck as a match-winner from a quarter-final showing
nearly nine years ago in Toulouse.


"It was about ten grand," he said with eerie precision of the
10,800-dollar payout. "I put it straight into a Swiss bank."


Federer's running career prize money total puts him third on the
all-time money list behind the 43.3 million dollars of Pete
Sampras and 31.2 of Andre Agassi.


Against Ferrer, the top seed still had to shake out some early
jitters as the pair produced three consecutive breaks of serve
midway through the opening set.


But once Federer got on track, the ten-time Grand Slam champion
was untouchable, breaking his Spanish opponent for 5-4 and
serving out the first set after 37 minutes.


The Swiss improved to 17-2 on the season as memories of


back-to-back hardcourt defeats last month against Guillermo Canas
begin to ease slightly.


"I finally kind of felt the ball really good from the baseline,"
said Federer. "I just felt like it was easy to keep the ball in
play. It was easy to play aggressive."

