

Matthew Hayden scored his third century of this World Cup as
champions Australia piled up 348 for six against New Zealand in a
Super Eights match at Grenada's National Stadium here Friday.


Fit-again all-rounder Shane Watson marked his return from three
games out with a calf injury by scoring a blistering 65 not out.


Hayden's 103 off 100 balls, with two sixes and 10 fours, saw the
tournament's leading run scorer equal the record for most
hundreds at a single World Cup held by Australia's Mark Waugh
(1996) and India's Sourav Ganguly (2003).


It was also the 35-year-old Queensland left-handed opener's fifth
hundred in 21 one-day international innings after he was dropped
for the Champions Trophy in India in October and November, a run
that included his Australia record 181 not out against New
Zealand in Hamilton in February.


But New Zealand were without ill fast bowler Shane Bond and
injured pace bowling all-rounder Jacob Oram.


Impressive off-spinner Jeetan Patel took two for 48 in a match
which was the last group game for two teams who had already made
sure of their semi-final places.


Watson countered with a 32-ball knock featuring four sixes and
four fours. He ended the innings by slashing left-arm quick James
Franklin over cover for six.


Franklin took three wickets but his eight overs cost an expensive
74 runs.


Mark Gillespie, Bond's replacement, saw his six wicketless overs
go for 67.


Together with Australia captain Ricky Ponting (66), Hayden put on
137 for the second wicket after the early loss of Adam Gilchrist.


Franklin, often reliant on swing, took a wicket first ball when
Gilchrist, on one, cut a wide delivery straight to Gillespie at
third man.


With Australia 28 for one off four overs, New Zealand captain
Stephen Fleming gave an unusually early introduction to Patel.


Hayden and Ponting both completed 53 ball-fifties before their
22-over stand ended when the captain chipped a drive off Patel to
Ross Taylor at short mid- wicket.


Hayden, against Daniel Vettori in his 200th one-day
international, drove the left-arm spinner for three successive
fours.


And he went to 96 with a huge straight six off Scott Styris.


But going for another big hit off the medium-pacer he miscued a
drive high in the air and Styris, running back, held a superb
caught and bowled chance as the ball dropped over his shoulder.


Australia were now 216 for three in the 33rd over.


But when Patel had the hard-hitting Andrew Symonds caught at
long-off for 11 by Michael Mason, Australia were 257 for five in
the 41st.


New Zealand have won their last three one-dayers against
Australia following a clean sweep in February's Chappell-Hadlee
series where they also scored two of the three biggest totals to
win batting second in one-day international history.


Victory in this match would see New Zealand draw level with
standings leaders Australia on 12 points.


But they would need to win by a huge margin to go ahead on run-
rate and upset the likely semi-final pairings which currently see
them playing Sri Lanka in Jamaica on Tuesday and Australia up
against South Africa on Wednesday in St Lucia.


The World Cup final is scheduled for Saturday, April 28 in
Barbados.

