

US President George W. Bush said Friday it was too soon to judge
a US-led security push in Iraq, but stressed already "the
direction of the fight is beginning to shift."


"There are still horrific attacks in Iraq, such as the bombings
in Baghdad on Wednesday, but the direction of the fight is
beginning to shift," Bush said in a speech two days after those
attacks killed more than 200 people.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, "reports that
it will be later this year before we can judge the potential for
success, but the first indications are beginning to emerge."


"And they show that so far, the operation is meeting
expectations," said the US president, whose poll numbers have
slumped in large part because of the unpopular war, which roughly
half the US public says is already lost.


Bush said he would deliver public updates on the two-month-old,
US-led security crackdown in Baghdad and restive al-Anbar
province that many observers have called a last-ditch effort to
quell sectarian violence.


His optimistic comments came one day after Democratic Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid told reporters "this war is lost" --
drawing immediate and fierce rhetorical attacks from the White
House and Republican lawmakers.


"This war is lost, and this surge is not accomplishing anything,
as is shown by the extreme violence in Iraq this week," Reid told
reporters, referring to the US-led security push in Baghdad.


Bush did not directly address Reid's comments, but White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino quickly fired back that they were at odds
with US military assessments of the two-month-old effort to quell
sectarian violence in Iraq.


And "if this is his true feeling, then it makes one wonder if he
has the courage of his convictions and therefore will decide to
defund the war," the spokeswoman said as the president pleaded
for time for his plan to work.


"Who does Dana Perino think she is to lecture the majority leader
of the senate on courage," shot back Reid spokesman Jim Manley.
"This war cannot be won militarily, it can only be won
politically."


A spate of recent polls suggests that a little less than half of
the US public agrees with Reid that the war is already lost, with
a sizeable number saying that the United States can still win,
but probably will not.

