

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice met with her Czech
counterpart Friday to discuss plans to use the Czech Republic as
a base for a controversial missile defense shield which Russia
has denounced as a strategic threat.


Speaking alongside Rice before their meeting, Czech Foreign
Minister Karel Schwarzenberg voiced support for the US plan that
Washington says is aimed at countering "21st century threats"
from missile-wielding rogue states like Iran.


"We have to confront the dangers we have today," said
Schwarzenberg, whose government has been divided on the issue.


Rice said anti-missile projects were a key element of efforts to
counter the modern threats of terrorism and the spread of weapons
of mass destruction.


"I look forward to discussions with my colleague about ways that
we might protect ourselves against those threats, including
through missile defense," she said.


Washington announced in January plans to extend its still-
unproven missile shield into Europe to counter potential missile
attacks from what it calls "rogue states" such as Iran and North
Korea.


The scheme would involve putting 10 unarmed missile interceptors
in Poland and a radar system in the neighboring Czech Republic to
track any attack. This would be linked to an advance warning
system, probably in the Caucasus.


The project to host a foreign base in the former Soviet-dominated
Czech Republic has created tension within Prime Minister Mirek
Topolanek's fragile center-right coalition and split public
opinion.


Washington is currently negotiating details of the proposal with
Warsaw and Prague, though the installations are not due to be
operational until around 2013.


The US plan has divided NATO members and provoked a furious
reaction from Moscow, which sees the shield proposal as a threat
to its national security.


US officials defended the idea in talks Thursday in Brussels with
fellow NATO members and Russia, and while the allies said they
had been reassured about the plan, Moscow was unswayed.


"We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this system for,"
said Sergei Ivanov, a top aide to Russian President Vladimir
Putin and former defense minister.


Rice reaffirmed Friday that Washington remained committed to
discussing the plan with the Russians, "because we all face a
common threat and we need to prepare for those threats."


The United States has invited Russia to cooperate with the
missile defense program as a way of easing Moscow's concerns, but
to no avail.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates is expected to focus on the
plan during a visit to Moscow next week, while Rice and her NATO
counterparts will take it up in another NATO-Russia meeting in
Oslo next Thursday.


Schwarzenberg appeared to dismiss Russian concerns over the
missile defense plan as a vestige of the Cold War past.


"We should know what the world of today is, not be afraid of the
dangers of yesterday but confront the dangers of tomorrow and of
today, and that's one of the reasons I came here," he said.

