

The inquest into Bob Woolmer's death, scheduled to get underway
on Monday, has been postponed due to "new and significant
developments".


A statement from the Jamaican justice ministry said the decision
was taken following advice from the coroner.


"The coroner wishes that these new and significant developments
be pursued with the utmost urgency, taking into account that the
officer in charge has advised that these new developments are
critical to the progress and the eventual results of the
investigations themselves," said the statement.


"If it becomes necessary for an inquest to be held after the new
and material developments have been investigated, then another
date for the holding of the inquest will be appointed."


Woolmer, the coach of the Pakistan team at the World Cup, was
found unconscious in his room at the Pegasus Hotel the morning
after his side had suffered a shock defeat to Ireland.


Detectives launched a murder investigation after an autopsy
indicated that the 58-year-old former England Test player had
been strangled.


The Jamaica Gleaner newspaper said that the inquest had been
postponed because of security concerns as the hearing was
scheduled to begin a day before the first World Cup semi-final,
being held at Sabina Park on Tuesday.


The report claimed that police had met with coroner Patrick
Murphy.


During the meeting it was determined that the combined events
would stretch police resources.


Deputy police commissioner Mark Shields, the man leading the hunt
for the killer, said: "My principal concerns were (that) to
conduct an inquest at this stage may seriously hinder the
progress of the criminal investigation, including the potential
for the suspect or suspects to be alerted as to the progress of
the investigation," Shields said.


"It might also prejudice a jury trial and the investigation is
still at an early stage and is extremely complicated and holding
an inquest now would be premature. There is also the
consideration of the semi-final happening in Kingston at the same
time."


Scotland Yard, Pakistan detectives as well as Interpol have been
drafted in to help the investigation.


On Wednesday, Ireland's World Cup squad supplied statements,
fingerprints and DNA samples as part of the ongoing police
investigation.


"These tests were carried out with a view to eliminating the
Ireland squad from their enquiries," said a team statement.


"We would like to stress that on the evening of the Woolmer
murder, no member of the Irish squad were actually in the hotel,
as they were attending a celebration St Patrick's Day party in
Ocho Rios, some 50 miles away.


"The team didn't return until the late evening of Sunday, March
18."

