

Three activist groups asked US regulators Friday to block
Google's takeover of online ad firm DoubleClick, arguing it would
give the Internet giant unprecedented access to data and poses
privacy risks.


"Google's proposed acquisition of DoubleClick will give one
company access to more information about the Internet activities
of consumers than any other company in the world," said the
complaint lodged with the Federal Trade Commission.


"Moreover, Google will operate with virtually no legal obligation
to ensure the privacy, security, and accuracy of the personal
data that it collects."


The complaint was filed by the Electronic Privacy Information
Center along with the Center for Digital Democracy and the US
Public Interest Research Group, all of which are involved in
online privacy issues.


The groups said both companies have shown shortcomings in privacy
issues that raise questions about the 3.1-billion-dollar takeover
announced by Google earlier this week.


The complaint said the deal poses risks for Internet users in the
US and worldwide.


"The acquisition of DoubleClick will permit Google to track both
a person's Internet searches and a person's web site visits," it
said.


"This could impact the privacy interests of 233 million Internet
users in North America, 314 million Internet users in Europe, and
more than 1.1 billion Internet users around the world."


Responding to the announcement, Google deputy general counsel
Nicole Wong said there was "no basis for such a complaint."


"User, advertiser and publisher trust is paramount to the success
of our business and to the success of the acquisition," the
Google attorney said in a statement.


"We can't imagine taking any actions that would undermine these
relationships or the trust people have in using our products and
services."


The groups said the FTC had previously cited DoubleClick for its
use of "web bugs" to track users' progress within Web sites and
collect information about the user and later pledged to disclose
more information about the practice.


They also noted that Google stores its users' search terms in a
way that can identify them through their Internet Protocol (IP)
address.


Because this practice is poorly disclosed, the groups said
"Google's representations concerning its data retention practices
were, and are, deceptive practices."


Without any action to halt these practices, the complaint said,
"Google will leave Internet users vulnerable to surveillance by
law enforcement agents and intelligence officers, both in United
States and in other countries," and other companies "will be
encouraged" to follow suit.

