

Ethiopian forces battled Islamist insurgents with mortar bombs
and machine guns in the Somali capital Friday as the United
Nations warned of a humanitarian catastrophe with corpses left
rotting in the streets.


Ethiopian forces launched mortar bombs from the presidential
palace in southern Mogadishu at insurgents based in the north of
the city, who fired back, witnessed said.


"Ethiopian forces are bombing down civilian sites, places where
there are no insurgents. This morning, they have shelled places
some 15 kilometres away (from the city), and people are fleeing
again," said  Hussein Said Korgab, the spokesman for Mogadishu's
dominant Hawiye clan.


At least 37 civilians have been killed and 200 wounded in three
days of fighting that erupted Tuesday, with a lull the following
day, but which was shattered Thursday.


"I can tell you that more than 30 people have been killed in two
days of fighting. The number of wounded people is about 200,"
Korgab told AFP.


Seven civilians were killed Tuesday.


More Ethiopian troops moved into Mogadishu to reinforce their
colleagues a day after a suspected suicide bomber attacked their
base south of the capital.


The worsening situation in Mogadishu has led UN humanitarian
officials to warn of a looming disaster.


"Unless something is done, the humanitarian crisis is going to
turn into a catastrophe very soon," Eric Laroche, the UN's
humanitarian coordinator in Somalia, told journalists Thursday.


The UN said Somali government forces were blocking relief
supplies and that  UN aircraft were being shot at. In Mogadishu,
bodies were left lying in the streets, while a cholera or
diarrhoea epidemic was taking hold and new flooding was likely
soon, it added.


"I live with my children under a tree now and there are a lot of
people living like this," Muna Ali Nur, a mother-of-four, told
AFP from a camp in Elesha.


Tensions in Somalia have risen again since Ethiopian forces
helped the UN-backed transitional government to oust Islamists
from Mogadishu in January.


The Islamists have vowed to wage a prolonged guerrilla war
against the Ethiopians and the capital is in the grips of fierce
fighting, touching off an exodus of civilians.


Some 213,000 people have fled Mogadishu in the past two months,
the UN refugee agency said Friday.


Four days of fighting late last month saw the worst violence in
Mogadishu for 15 years and efforts to agree a lasting ceasefire
have been dogged by clashes.


Elders from Mogadishu's Hawiye clan have accused the Ethiopians
of refusing to withdraw from the frontline, attacking the
insurgents and shattering a fragile ceasefire.


But an official close to Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi's
office told AFP the two sides were "still in secret, intermittent
talks."


Elders have said at least 1,000 people have died and more than
4,000 have been wounded in the fighting.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the ousting of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off a power struggle
that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


Meanwhile, the African Union envoy to Somalia Mohamed Foum held
talks with Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi in Mogadishu on the
deployment of more AU peacekeepers in the lawless country.


Some 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in the lawless
capital early March have failed to stem the surge in violence.
They have instead taken positions in the main airport, sea port,
presidential palace and a key access road to the airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed maintain control of the
country.


The UN's humanitarian office said it would meet with Somali
government leaders on Monday about the deteriorating situation.

