

Simon Mann, the alleged mastermind of a foiled coup in Equatorial
Guinea, told a court on Friday that Zimbabwean security agents
coerced him into confessing that he was the plot's ringleader.


"The statement was dictated to me and I wrote what I was told,"
the Briton, who is currently serving a jail term in Harare, said
at Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison during a hearing into his
extradition to Equatorial Guinea.


"I was taken to the airport by unknown men and they showed me the
plane threatening to extradite me to Equatorial Guinea if I did
not sign the statement."


Mann and 61 other men were arrested when their plane landed at
Harare international airport in March 2004.


They were said to have been stopping off to pick up weapons en
route to Malabo to join an advance team led by South African Nick
du Toit, who was himself arrested and then sentenced to 34 years
in prison in Malabo.


Mann said he and his co-accused where in transit to the
Democratic Republic of Congo when they were arrested in Harare.


He said they needed the weapons for a security contract they had
won in northern DRC which he said was then occupied by armed
former rebels.


"As you may know, northern DRC is a rough place," Mann who was
wearing a khaki prison shirt, trousers and a white pair of
sneakers told the makeshift court.


"There are ex-rebels, ex-this and ex-that and they are all
armed."


Mann denied having any contacts with the opposition in Equatorial
Guinea and said he feared he would be tortured if extradited to
the west African country.


"I don't think they are reasonable people," he said. "They are
torturers. I don't think they even know what a fair trial is."


The former officer in Britain's Special Air Service was handed a
seven-year term for the purchase of weapons that prosecutors said
were to be used to topple President Obiang Nguema, ruler of the
oil-rich west African state since 1979. The sentence was later
cut to four years.


Most of those arrested with Mann were released from a Zimbabwean
prison in 2005 and the Briton is due to be freed next month.


Equatorial Guinea authorities want him to face another trial in
Malabo.

