

World oil prices rose strongly Friday as traders fretted over
supply worries amid violence in Nigeria, the world's sixth-
biggest exporter.


Market participants feared fresh outbreaks of violence in the
run-up to Nigeria's presidential elections this weekend may
disrupt supplies from Africa's biggest crude-producing nation.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, closed up a sharp 1.55 dollars at 63.38 dollars
per barrel after heavy losses the previous day.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
settled up 55 cents at 66.49 dollars per barrel.


"Crude futures were firmer today (Friday) ... ahead of the
Nigerian presidential elections this weekend," said Michael
Davies, an analyst at the Sucden brokerage in London.


"There have been violent demonstrations recently, with the
opposition holding a protest rally ahead of the election and
during last week's state polls."


Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo has called for a crackdown
on vote rigging ahead of Nigeria's landmark presidential election
on Saturday after a campaign plagued by violence.


At least 20 people were killed in election-linked violence in
Nigeria's initial state elections last weekend amid accusations
of fraud and vote-rigging.


New York oil prices rebounded dramatically after slumping
Thursday on reports that US refiners were ramping up their
production of gasoline, and as the market put lingering Iran-
related geopolitical jitters temporarily aside.


The refining news offset data published on Wednesday by the US
Department of Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline reserves fell
2.7 million barrels last week, the 10th consecutive drop and
heavier than forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million.


Dealers are watching gasoline statistics closely before the US
summer driving season kicks off next month, when many Americans
hit the roads for their vacations.


Concerns about Iran's controversial nuclear program meanwhile
continued to occupy the market.


The UN atomic watchdog said late on Wednesday that Iran, the
world's fourth- biggest crude producer, had started feeding
uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has
installed more than 1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Analysts are worried that the Islamic Republic, which is the
fourth-biggest global crude producer, could respond by slashing
exports.


Elsewhere, analysts shrugged off market concern that China's
impressive economic growth during the first quarter could result
in Beijing raising interest rates and thus crimping Asian crude
demand.


China's economy grew by 11.1 percent in the first quarter,
compared with the first three months of 2006, according to
official data released Thursday.


The Asian powerhouse is the world's second largest energy
consumer after the United States.

