

The London stock market will be hoping to rise for a third week
in a row amid more takeover fever next week after appearing to
shake off the effects of a strong pound.


London's FTSE 100 index of leading shares finished at 6,486.80
points on Friday, up 46.20 points or 0.72 percent from a week
earlier.


The FTSE rallied strongly on Friday, as feverish takeover
activity struck the pharmaceutical sectors. It had fallen on
Wednesday and Thursday as the pound raced above 2.0 dollars in
European trade. A strong pound is seen as harmful to companies
whose earnings are mainly in dollars.


The FTSE rebounded Friday, however, led by Europe's biggest
pharmacy chain Alliance Boots as a cross-Atlantic bidding war
erupted for the British group.


Alliance Boots ended Friday top of the FTSE 100 after surging
7.19 percent to close at 1,125 pence.


US and British private equity groups on Friday launched rival
cash bids approaching 11.0 billion pounds (16.2 billion euros,
22.04 billion dollars).


A takeover backed by either Terra Firma or Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts (KKR) would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


A consortium headed by British group Terra Firma tabled an
indicative bid worth 10.78 billion pounds for British company
Alliance Boots.


The offer trumped an improved bid by US group KKR which the
Alliance Boots board had accepted earlier Friday.


KKR, which is joined in its takeover by the executive deputy
chairman of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina, offered 10.6 billion
pounds.


Boots said late Friday that, for the time being, it was sticking
with the lower bid.


Investors are also keeping a close eye on a European takeover
saga involving the banking sector. Dutch bank ABN Amro has
extended its exclusive takeover talks with British group Barclays
until late Friday.


However a consortium comprising Britain's Royal Bank of Scotland,
Santander of Spain and Dutch group Fortis are to meet with ABN
Amro next Monday to discuss a possible takeover bid of their own.

