

Prime Minister Tony Blair said on Friday that Britain no longer
needs to hold a referendum on a new European Union treaty, a move
welcomed by EU leaders battling to replace the bloc's near-dead
constitution.


Blair said the decision was supported by his likely successor,
Chancellor Gordon Brown, who will have the job of helping
negotiate a replacement treaty after the constitution was
torpedoed by French and Dutch referendums in 2005.


The confirmation, in an interview with a number of European
newspapers, came as the 27-member bloc grapples to find a
compromise in time for an EU summit in Brussels in June.


Blair said bluntly that the EU treaty he favours to replace the
constitutional one would not require a British referendum.


"If it's not a constitutional treaty, so that it alters the basic
relationship between Europe and the member states, then there
isn't the same case for a referendum," he told papers including
Britain's Financial Times.


He added that the British government is "going to get attacked
whatever we do, but Europe needs to do it to move forward."


Germany, which currently holds the EU's presidency, hailed the
comments, and said Blair is to discuss the constitution with
Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin next Tuesday.


"Tony Blair has made clear that his government, that Britain
takes a great interest in taking Europe forward. This statement
attests to a great will to make joint progress," said deputy
government spokesman Thomas Steg in Berlin.


"It is to be welcomed unreservedly. We hope that this statement
will also be useful to convince others who are still sceptical
and that we will achieve a positive outcome in June."


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making in
an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was rejected
by French and Dutch voters.


Those "no" votes were widely seen as good news for Blair, who had
promised a British referendum on the constitution despite polls
suggesting eurosceptic Britons would massively reject it.


Senior ministers had previously indicated it was highly unlikely
that Britain would hold a referendum on the issue, but Blair had
not said so explicitly before.


The premier earlier this week backed a Dutch proposal for the EU
to push for changes to existing treaties rather than a whole new
constitution, an idea aimed at easing popular fears of a European
superstate.


He also said that "we cannot bring back the constitutional
treaty" after the French and Dutch "no" votes.


EU leaders are to meet on June 21-22, where Blair expects them to
agree "the basic outline agreement for a treaty."


Eurosceptics say they are trying to revive the constitution "by
the back door," retaining its main reforms while simply removing
the word "constitution" from its title.


The ill-fated institutional blueprint notably agreed on creating
a post of EU foreign minister, a longer-term presidency and
streamlined voting systems to prevent gridlock in the expanding
bloc.


Blair insisted that his likely successor Brown -- widely seen as
more eurosceptic -- agreed with him that a referendum would not
be needed so long as a new EU treaty does not amount to a
constitution.


Blair insisted the pair -- often at loggerheads -- were reading
from the same page: "When we come to the June council, we will
come with the position of the government."


Brown is "pro-Europe and pro-reform and he wants change in Europe
-- quite rightly," said Blair.

