

Italian seven-time world champion Valentino Rossi and Australian
Casey Stoner are expected to battle it out for the victory at the
third Grand Prix of the season on the dust bowl track here on
Sunday.


Yamaha rider Rossi is the current championship leader having won
the last GP in Jerez, Spain and taken second place to Stoner at
the season's opener in Qatar.


The dirty, dusty track at Istanbul Park, which made its Moto GP
debut in 2005, already wreaked havoc in the early practices
sessions, though, with Stoner himself skidding off course.


As such, tyres are likely to play a significant role during the
weekend, with Stoner using Bridgestones on his Ducati and Rossi
on Michelins.


This course presents something of an unconquered challenge to
Rossi, the dominant rider of his generation, as it is one of two
circuits on the calendar where he has never won, finishing second
in 2005 and fourth last year - the other circuit is Laguna Seca
in the United States.


The Doctor, as Rossi is known, is still a fan of the Istanbul
track, though.


"It's a beautiful circuit with some fast corners. If my
motorcycle is working well, we'll have a lot of fun," he said.


Another disadvantage that will not help Rossi is his straight-
line speed, which is no match for Stoner's. This course is more
likely to resemble that in Qatar, where Rossi could not hold
Stoner off down the straights, than the last in Jerez, where the
Italian was dominant.


It won't just be a two-way battle between the two winners of the
first two Grand Prix of the season. Reigning world champion
American Nicky Hayden and Spanish Honda rider Dani Pedrosa,
second in Jerez and also in the championship standings, should
have a say in the final podium positions.


Hayden, for one, is hoping to improve on his third place finishes
here from the last years.


"I've had several weeks of rest, roll on the summer," he said.
"Istanbul Park is a great course, really nice, especialy the big
fifth corner which was very delicate with the 990cc. I can't wait
to see how the 800cc deals with it."


The biggest change for this season was the switch from 990cc
motorcycles to 800cc.


Last year's winner Marco Melandri should be a danger here, as
well as Ducati rider Loris Capirossi.

