

A cross-Atlantic bidding war erupted on Friday for Europe's
biggest pharmacy chain, Alliance Boots, as US and British private
equity groups launched rival cash bids approaching 11.0 billion
pounds.


A takeover backed by either Terra Firma or Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts (KKR) would represent Europe's biggest buyout by a
private equity firm.


The role of private equity groups in company takeovers has been
heavily criticised in recent weeks by trade unions who claim that
workers face increased risks of redundancy.


A consortium headed by British group Terra Firma tabled a bid on
Friday worth 10.78 billion pounds (15.87 billion euros and 21.60
billion dollars) for British company Alliance Boots.


The offer trumped an improved bid by US private equity rival KKR
that the Alliance Boots board had accepted earlier Friday.


Despite Terra Firma's higher bid, Alliance Boots said it would
continue to recommend that its shareholders accept the KKR
proposal. However it left the door open to a possible acceptance
of the Terra offer.


"Having reviewed the indicative proposal (from Terra) the board
of Alliance Boots has determined that it will continue to provide
the consortium with high level due diligence including access to
senior management," a statement said.


KKR, which is joined in its takeover by the executive deputy
chairman of Alliance Boots, Stefano Pessina, offered 10.6 billion
pounds.


Pessina owns 15.05 percent of Alliance Boots, which was created
last year by the British merger of pharmacy chain Alliance
UniChem and health and beauty retailer Boots.


A takeover would also make the newly-formed Alliance Boots the
first company to fall into private hands while being listed on
London's prestigious FTSE 100 share index.


The share price in Alliance Boots surged 7.19 percent to close at
1,125 pence on Friday. The FTSE 100 finished 0.72 percent higher
at 6,486.80 points.


Terra Firma's indicative offer was worth 1,126 pence for each
Alliance Boots share, while KKR proposed 1,090 pence. Should
Alliance Boots ditch KKR in favour of Terra Firma, the latter
would have to pay compensation to its rival.


Terra, which is led by British financier Guy Hands, said this
would reduce its offer to 1,115 pence per share but would still
beat KKR's offer.


But responding to KKR's bid, which is being fronted by a takeover
vehicle called AB Acquisitions, the pharmacy group's chairman
Nigel Rudd said in a statement earlier on Friday: "I am delighted
that the board has been able to achieve such a good price for
shareholders."


Shortly after the recommendation was announced, Terra Firma said
it had put forward an indicative offer for Alliance Boots worth
1,085 pence per share and urged shareholders not to accept the
KKR bid. It then surprised the market by tabling a fresh offer
worth 10.78 billion pounds.


Terra Firma, which had already been joined in its bid by the
Wellcome Trust medical charity, announced on Friday that British
bank HBOS had been added to its consortium.


In a statement, Terra Firma said: "Following the announcement
this morning by AB Acquisitions Limited of a recommended offer
for Alliance Boots .... Terra Firma, the Wellcome Trust and HBOS
have provided the board of Alliance Boots with the terms of an
indicative proposal at 1,126 pence per share in cash."


KKR had two previous bids for Alliance Boots, worth 1,040 and
1,000 pence per share, turned down in March.


The private equity sector consists for the most part of
investment funds or banks that buy stakes in non-listed companies
which are generally broken up and sold for a profit or that buy
listed companies which are then withdrawn from the stock market.


Some leading finance officials have warned of the risk associated
with private equity groups that borrow huge amounts of money
through the company being acquired to help fund the deals.


Alliance Boots has 2,600 healthcare outlets, which include 1,500
community pharmacies. The combined group has more than 100,000
employees.


Internationally, Alliance Boots operates around 550 pharmacies in
Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Switzerland and
Thailand.


Alliance Boots is currently undergoing a three-year restructuring
programme costing 250 million pounds that will also result in
2,250 jobs being axed.

