

A trial of four former Serb military policemen charged over the
1995 Srebrenica massacre opened here Friday, a Bosnian court
said.


Zdravko Bozic, Mladen Blagojevic, Zeljko Zaric and Zoran
Zivanovic were indicted by the Bosnian state prosecutor for war
crimes over the illegal detention, murder and forceful transfer
of Muslims in the Bosnian town.


The four, aged between 33 and 42, "planned, ordered, instigated,
committed and aided" criminal acts against Muslim civilians after
Serb forces overran the UN- protected enclave on July 11, 1995,
the prosecutor said.


As members of the Bratunac brigade, they are accused of
participating in "widespread and systematic attacks against the
civilian population" in Srebrenica "with the intention to
discriminate against Bosniaks (Bosnian Muslims) on political,
racial, national ethnic, cultural and religious grounds".


The indictment also says they guarded facilities where thousands
of unarmed Muslims were unlawfully detained.


Bozic and Blagojevic are accused of participating in the
execution of at least five civilians, while Zaric and Zivanovic
allegedly killed three.


The four, who have yet to enter their plea, were detained last
year.


Bozic and Blagojevic were deported from the United States after
authorities there discovered they obtained permanent residence
while lying about their past.


Serb forces took control of Srebrenica near the end of Bosnia's
1992-1995 war before summarily killing around 8,000 Muslim men
and boys within a few days.


The massacre -- considered the single worst atrocity in Europe
since World War II -- led to genocide charges brought by the UN
war crimes court in The Hague against several suspects.


The main culprits, Bosnian Serb wartime leader Radovan Karadzic
and his army chief Ratko Mladic, still remain at large. Mladic is
believed to be hiding in Serbia and Karadzic in Serb-controlled
parts of Bosnia and Montenegro.


Bosnian courts are allowed to try low-profile war crimes cases,
while the International Criminal Tribunal for the former
Yugoslavia (ICTY) deals with those involving top wartime
officials.

