

Japanese businessman Hirokazu Ota, the leader of Sun Myung Moon's
Unification Church in Paraguay, was freed Friday following a
19-day abduction and a 140,000-dollar ransom payment, and taken
to the Japanese embassy in Asuncion, police said.


Ota, 62, and two Paraguayans abducted at the same time, policeman
Rafael Ramos Balmori and his girlfriend, teacher Nancy Gimenez,
were freed in good health in the city of Presidente Franco near
the triple border with Brazil and Argentina just after 0600 GMT,
police added.


Authorities took the Paraguayans to the home of Gimenez's family,
and Ota to his country's embassy in the Paraguayan capital.


Ota, who also heads the real estate concern Victoria S.A. which
belongs to the church, could be flown to Tokyo Friday to see
family members, diplomatic sources said.


Two weeks ago Ota's secretary, Japanese national Sawako Takayama
de Yamaguchi, was released with a cell phone with which
authorities were directed to negotiate the release of the three
other hostages.


The ransom was delivered in the area of Minga Guazu, and police
launched a hunt for the kidnappers. So far, nine people have been
detained in relation to the abductions and seven other people
have been ordered detained, authorities said.


An armed group of bandits demanding a ransom snatched the two
Japanese members of the church and two locals on April 1 in
Caaguazu, about 200 kilometres (120 miles) east of the capital
Asuncion.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso welcomed the safe release of
the abductees in the porous crime-ridden area on the borders with
Brazil and Argentina.


"I would like to express my heartfelt joy for the victims, their
families and all other people concerned," Aso said in the
statement.


"The government of Japan at this occasion strongly condemns
kidnapping as a contemptible act."


Prosecutors had been offering a 20,000-dollar reward for
information on Ota's whereabouts and an elite Paraguayan unit was
deployed this week to patrol the tri-border region, a haven for
smugglers and other criminals.


But the Unification Church in Paraguay earlier this week urged
the police to step aside and negotiated with the bandits itself.


Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System reported from Paraguay that a
total of 300,000 dollars was paid for the release of both Ota and
his secretary.

