

EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana will hold fresh talks on
April 25 with Iran's top nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani at an
undetermined location, Solana's spokeswoman said Friday.


"There will indeed be a meeting on April 25," she told AFP,
confirming a report on Iranian state television on Thursday.


When asked where the meeting would take place the spokeswoman,
Cristina Gallach, would only say "neither in Brussels nor in
Tehran".


The UN Security Council imposed new sanctions against Iran on
March 24 after it repeatedly ignored ultimatums to suspend
uranium enrichment but the body charged Solana with trying to re-
establish negotiations.


Solana and Larijani talk regularly by telephone but their last
face-to-face meeting was in Munich, Germany on February 11.


The crisis over 15 British sailors -- released on April 5 after
almost two weeks in captivity in Iran -- also hindered contacts.


Gallach said Solana's job is to try "to create the conditions for
negotiations" on a way to tempt Tehran to halt nuclear enrichment
in exchange for a package of political, economic and trade
incentives.


Major world powers have been insisting that Iran must first
suspend uranium enrichment before these negotiations can resume,
while Iran insists any suspension should be a matter for the
negotiations themselves.


Enriched uranium is used in both nuclear reactors and, in its
highly refined state, in atomic bombs. Many western countries
fear that Iran is trying to covertly develop such a weapon.


The Islamic republic maintains that it only wants to generate
energy.


After the Security Council adopted the new sanctions, tightening
an earlier package approved in December, Solana stressed that
diplomacy remained the European Union's preferred means of
addressing international concerns.


"The door to negotiations is open; I hope we can together find a
way to go through it," he said.


Gallach explained that the last really serious talks between he
and Larijani took place in Berlin in late September, while the
Munich meeting was more important as an opportunity to look back
on what had happened so far.


She said that Wednesday's meeting falls roughly 30 days after the
new sanctions took effect and 30 days before they could be
revised and toughened again, leaving some hope that Iran may be
ready to budge from its position.


"If there wasn't any hope, we wouldn't go" to meet Larijani, she
said, but underlined that "we have seen no sign for the moment"
that the Iranian position has softened.


She said there was little doubt that Tehran is feeling the bite
of the sanctions, both politically and at a practical level
through their effects.


Solana plans to put the last offer, drawn up by the five
permanent UN Security Council members plus Germany last June,
back on the table, Gallach said.

