

Montenegro on Friday told visiting Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov it backed Moscow's push for more talks on the
future of Kosovo, the breakaway province of its former union
partner Serbia.


"Belgrade and Pristina must continue to negotiate because a
solution can be found only by direct contacts between the parties
concerned," Lavrov said after meeting his Montenegrin counterpart
Milan Rocen.


Montenegro supported the Russian call for further talks, said
Rocen.


"It's still not too late to continue the negotiations even though
the process has entered the UN because Russia is undertaking a
range of activities concerning" the extra talks, said the
Montenegrin foreign minister.


Montenegro, which split from a loose federation with Serbia in
2006 after a historic referendum, angered Belgrade late last year
by welcoming Kosovo's ethnic Albanian prime minister Agim Ceku on
an official visit.


Earlier Friday in Pristina, Ceku rejected the Russian proposal
for further Kosovo talks, as requested by Lavrov during a visit
to the Serbian capital on Thursday.


"There is no (possibility of) a restart of the negotiations,"
said Ceku, referring to UN-led talks that lasted 13 months but
ended in deadlock earlier this year.


Speaking to reporters in Montenegro, Lavrov described as
"blackmail" warnings from Washington that violence could erupt
unless Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority is soon granted its wish
for independence.


"It's blackmail. International forces are present in Kosovo with
a mandate to quell any acts of violence and that is what they are
doing," said Lavrov.


Kosovo has been managed by a UN mission since mid-1999, after
NATO bombing ended a crackdown by Serbian forces on the
province's independence-seeking ethnic Albanians.


In the coming weeks, the UN Security Council is to decide on its
future status based on a recommendation by UN special envoy
Martti Ahtisaari for it to be granted internationally supervised
independence.


During a visit to Serbia on Thursday, Lavrov said Ahtisaari's
plan had "failed," making it necessary for new talks between
Belgrade and Pristina.


Belgrade hopes veto-wielding Russia will block any new resolution
that would strip Serbia of sovereignty over Kosovo, an ethnic
Albanian majority province it sees as the country's historic
heartland.


The Russian minister was in Podgorica for a brief visit before
travelling to Moscow, where members of the Contact Group of
nations overseeing the Kosovo issue were to meet later Friday.


The informal group of six powers -- Britain, France, Germany,
Italy, Russia and the United States -- is also scheduled to
gather in Berlin on Wednesday next week.


At the meetings, the United States and European countries are
expected to try to convince Russia to drop its opposition to the
Ahtisaari plan.


A UN Security Council fact-finding mission will then make a two-
day visit Belgrade and Pristina in accordance with a Russian
request.

