

Top Russian businessmen and officials have cancelled their
attendance at an economic forum in London next week amid a surge
in tension between London and Moscow, officials said Friday.


The Russian Economic Forum in London, which starts Monday,
usually attracts major power-brokers who give presentations on
Russian business to potential investors.


But this year, some major players from semi-public companies will
be absent, including Alexander Medvedev, deputy chairman of
energy giant Gazprom and Sergei Bogdanchikov, president of oil
company Rosneft.


"There won't be any high officials this year at the forum," said
Jonti Small, spokesman for event organisers Eventica.
"Bogdanchikov told us yesterday he won't come. The officials just
said their plans have changed."


According to three sources close to the Kremlin quoted Thursday
by Russian newspaper Kommersant, the sudden decision to boycott
the event was "an order from above."


One of the sources said that the move came after a dispute with
the British Foreign Office.


Russian businessman Boris Berezovksky, who was granted political
asylum in Britain in 2003, provoked fury in Moscow earlier this
week when he called for the overthrow of President Vladimir
Putin.


"We need to use force to change this regime. It isn't possible to
change this regime through democratic means," he told the
Guardian newspaper, although in a later clarification, he did not
support violence.


His comments prompted Russia to renew a call for his extradition
and the country's ambassador in London, Yury Fedotov, warned that
relations between Britain and Russia could deteriorate unless
officials acted against Berezovsky.


"The absence of a reaction would have some impact on bilateral
relations, " he told the Guardian, adding it could create "a new
situation."


The forum's organisers would not comment on whether the absence
of key figures was linked to politics.


Last year, the Kremlin was represented at the event by Igor
Shuvalov, Putin's economic advisor.


Ties between London and Moscow have also been strained since the
assassination by radioactive poisoning of former Russian spy
Alexander Litvinenko last November.


His associates accused Russia of poisoning Litvinenko because of
his opposition to President Putin, a claim rejected by the
Kremlin.

