

Romanian President Traian Basescu has given no clear sign about
his next move a day after parliament voted to suspend him in a
first step toward impeachment.


The 55-year-old president had said he would resign if lawmakers
backed the suspension, but following Thursday's vote he has not
revealed his intentions, leaving open several scenarios for
Romania, just four months after joining the European Union.


Basescu was accused of 19 constitutional violations, including
"controlling through those close to him all state institutions,
of interfering in the law and protecting the interests of the
mafia in the Romanian economy."


On Thursday night Basescu addressed thousands of supporters in
central Bucharest with a rallying cry: "We will see each other at
the polls."


It was unclear however if he was referring to a required
referendum on whether to impeach him, which must be held within
30 days, or a presidential election in three months, in which
case he would resign.


"From Monday, when they will complete the formalities related to
the suspension vote, I will still be the functioning president of
Romania," Basescu told the crowd.


Several Romanian newspapers Friday pointed to Basescu's apparent
"turnaround", with one editoral writer for Gandul saying he
risked being branded "with shame" if he failed to follow through
on his promise to resign.


The president's apparent hesitation could lead to a scenario
where the government of arch-rival Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu
would amend the electoral law to prevent a suspended president
from standing again for office. Tariceanu, whose National Liberal
Party voted heavily for the suspension, has commented that the
suspended president "no longer has the moral right to run as a
candidate."


At the same time Tariceanu has sought to reassure the EU and the
business community that the institutions of government were
functioning, and that "Romania is strongly determined to meet its
commitments and to follow through with its reforms."


In comments made in Brussels, EU Justice Commissioner Franco
Frattini stressed the importance of Romania reforming its
judicial system and fighting corruption.


He also reminded Bucharest that in June the European Commission
will report on Romania's progress since joining the bloc on
January 1 this year.


Local media Friday also speculated on the possible candidates in
the presidential election with Basescu, who is still a popular
figure and favorite to hold onto the post.


The opposition Social Democrats, who spearheaded the move to oust
Basescu, as well as the Liberals appear not to be optimistic
about presenting one of their respective party chiefs, Mircea
Geoana or Tariceanu.


They may instead back a single, fresh candidate who they believe
would do well at the polls.


Some names that have surfaced are the country's central bank
governor, Mugur Isarescu, who was an unsuccessful presidential
candidate in 2000, and former tennis champion turned businessman
Ion Tiriac.

