

Peter Moores was Friday named as England's new head coach
following the resignation of Duncan Fletcher in the wake of
Michael Vaughan's side early elimination from the World Cup.


Moores was previously head of England's academy set-up and had
been widely expected to succeed Fletcher.


He will take up the post from the start of next month, the
England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) confirmed, in time for the
visit of the West Indies for a Test and one-day series.


Moores said: "It is an honour to have been appointed as England
head coach and to succeed Duncan Fletcher, who has been an
outstanding coach of the England team.


"I have enjoyed my two years at the National Academy and my role
with the England teams.


"The challenge of this new role excites me and I look forward to
meeting up with the players on their return to the United Kingdom
and to leading England to success in both Test and one-day
cricket."


England skipper Michael Vaughan said he was looking forward to
working with Moores.


"His (Moores) record is very good and I think he is very similar
to Duncan Fletcher - forward thinking. I am sure he will do a
great job," said Vaughan.


"I am looking forward to working with him. He has huge enthusiasm
for the game. I like the way he thinks about the game and I am
sure he will bring a lot to England cricket."


ECB chief executive David Collier said: "ECB has developed a
contingency and succession plan for all key management positions.
Peter has been identified for some time as a leading candidate as
a future England head coach.


"He led Sussex to domestic success and is one of the highest
qualified coaches in world cricket.


"He has worked since 2005 with the National Academy programme and
has led tours with the England A Team. He is highly respected as
an innovative and inspiring coach and is an ideal person to
accept this appointment.


"In addition to the preparation of the Test team for the Test
Series versus the West Indies in four weeks' time Peter will also
commence the important work of preparing a new strategy for one-
day cricket to match the improvements made in Test match cricket
and to build a side for the 2009 Twenty20 Championship in England
and the 2011 World Cup in Asia."

