

Lawmakers approved a bill to grant a legislative voting right for
the first time to the US federal capital city, to address what
critics see as a major undemocratic "flaw" in the US political
system.


"For more than 200 years, the citizens of the District of
Columbia have been denied full voting representation. This
legislation corrects a serious flaw in our democracy," House of
Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said at the vote on
Thursday.


"Today, we seek to affirm an enduring principle of our democracy:
the right to be heard and represented fully."


Members of the House approved on a 241-177 vote the bill to
allocate a House seat to a representative of the District of
Columbia, the mid-Atlantic enclave of nearly 600,000 people
wedged between Maryland and Virginia, which is home to the
federal government.


The House representative for the district, which is not one of
the 50 US states, currently has the right to participate in
debates but not to cast a vote -- even though some states with
members in the Senate and the House have smaller populations.


In a bid to overcome opposition to representation for Washington,
a traditional bastion of the Democratic Party, the House measure
also creates an additional representative's seat for Utah, a
solidly Republican western state that is experiencing a
population boom.


However, the bill faces an uphill battle in the Senate, and
President George W. Bush has threatened to veto it.


Some constitutional experts say that Washington, because it is
not a state, does not have the right to have a vote in Congress
unless the US Constitution is amended, which requires the support
of two thirds of the House and the Senate and subsequent approval
by three quarters of the states.


Lack of voting rights has been a cause of complaint for natives
of the district for more than 200 years.


The official automobile license plate for Washington bears the
words "Taxation Without Representation," referring to
Washingtonians' historic complaint about the lack of a voting
member in Congress for their district.


The words echo the "no taxation without representation" slogan
used by 18th- century colonists in their war for independence
from Britain.


Ahead of Thursday's vote, thousands of residents marched to the
Capitol on Monday in a demonstration to push their demand for
equal rights.


The District of Columbia's status dates back to 1800 when
lawmakers moved the national capital from Philadelphia to
Washington. The federal government was charged with governing the
district to prevent Washington's representatives from unduly
influencing the work of Congress.


It was not until 1961 that Washingtonians gained the right to
vote in US presidential elections.

