

Police investigating the "cash for honours" row which has tainted
British Prime Minister Tony Blair's final year in office handed a
file on the case to prosecutors Friday, they said.


The inquiry was launched last year amid claims that political
parties including Blair's Labour had illegally offered seats in
the unelected upper House of Lords to financial supporters.


London's Metropolitan Police said it had handed the 216-page
dossier -- the main file in the probe -- to the Crown Prosecution
Service (CPS), which will now decide whether anyone should face
criminal proceedings in the case.


In a statement, the force said that 136 people had been
questioned either as witnesses or suspects.


Blair, who is expected to announce his resignation next month
after 10 years in office, was interviewed twice as a witness and
members of his cabinet have also been quizzed.


"We have had extensive consultation with the CPS during the
inquiry and provided them with reports together with over 6,300
documents," the Met said.


"It is now a matter for the CPS to consider the evidence, advise
us on whether any further enquiries are necessary and whether any
charges should be brought."


Four people have been arrested during the probe, including two of
Blair's closest aides, Lord Michael Levy, Labour's chief
fundraiser and Middle East envoy, and Ruth Turner, a senior
Downing Street official.


Levy and Turner, plus businessman and Labour Party backer Sir
Christopher Evans, remain on bail. They deny any wrong-doing and
no-one has been charged in the case.


Led by Scotland Yard assistant commissioner John Yates, dubbed
"Yates of the Yard" by the press, police launched their
investigation last March after a complaint from Scottish
Nationalist Party lawmaker Angus MacNeil.


This came after the revelation that the House of Lords'
appointment commission had blocked the award of peerages to four
wealthy Labour backers who lent the party money before the 2005
general election.


Labour admitted being secretly loaned nearly 14 million pounds
(20.5 million euros, 27 million dollars) in that period.


And when the main opposition Conservatives also owned up to
receiving 16 million pounds at the same time, the probe was
widened to include them as well.


The head of the CPS, Sir Ken Macdonald, has said he will not be
involved in deciding on whether to prosecute anyone because he
was once a member of the same legal office as Blair's lawyer
wife, Cherie.


The CPS may also consult Lord Peter Goldsmith who, as attorney-
general, is a member of Blair's cabinet.


kah/mt.awb

