

Candidates for the French presidency wound up their campaigns
Friday ahead of the first round of voting on Sunday, in which
right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy is expected to emerge as winner
ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal and centrist Francois
Bayrou.


Official campaigning for round one was due to close at midnight
Friday (1000 GMT), after which opinion polls are prohibited and
the media banned from reporting statements from the 12
candidates.


After a day meant for discussion among family and friends, voting
opens across France at 8 a.m. (0600 GMT) Sunday morning and ends
12 hours later, with normally reliable projections due out
immediately.


The two front-runners from the ballot qualify for a decisive
second round on May 6 -- the system having been devised for the
49 year-old Fifth Republic so that all presidents are elected
with more than half the vote.


The leading contenders held their last rallies on Thursday
evening, appealing to the third of the 44.5 million voters that
pollsters say are still undecided. On Friday Sarkozy, Royal and
Bayrou limited themselves to photo-calls, with short declarations
to accompanying reporters.


Sarkozy, the 52-year-old former interior minister and head of the
ruling Union for a Popular Movement (UMP), visited a bull ranch
in the southern Camargue region, posing for photographers in
jeans and checkered shirt.


"A presidential campaign is obviously exhausting, but I don't
feel exhausted, I don't feel at the end of my resources. I still
have things to say," he said.


Royal, 53, who is a former environment minister and wants to be
France's first woman president, was in Paris where she shared a
walkabout in a city centre market with Socialist mayor Bertrand
Delanoe.


Earlier she urged "all those who have republican and humanist
values" to vote for her in round one "because the history of
France must be written with the largest number of citizens."


Bayrou, the 55-year-old leader of the small Union for French
Democracy (UDF), visited the World War I cemetery and memorial at
Verdun, where he said he was "confident that the French will vote
for me, because everyone knows that my candidacy can beat the
super-favourite in round two."


With Sarkozy seemingly assured by opinion polls of a place in the
decisive second round, speculation is focussing on who will come
in second on Sunday.


Royal has been consistently placed a few points ahead of Bayrou,
but the UDF leader is the only candidate that polls suggest is
sure of beating Sarkozy on May 6. This raises the possibility
that left-wing voters will switch tactically to Bayrou in order
to keep out Sarkozy, analysts said.


Another unknown is the level of support for far-right veteran
Jean-Marie Le Pen, 78, who says that his poll rating of between
12 and 16 percent underestimates his true level of support.


In the 2002 election, Le Pen transfixed the world when he beat
Socialist candidate Lionel Jospin in round one -- despite polls
that had put him well behind in the run-up.


France is choosing a successor to Jacques Chirac -- who has been
president since 1995 -- in an election seen as one of the most
exciting and important in recent times.


All three main candidates come from a new generation of political
leaders, and all claim to represent a radical break from the
past. All also describe France as a country in crisis, thanks to
massive debt, high unemployment, low income levels and simmering
discord in the riot-hit suburbs.


In Sarkozy and Royal, voters face a clear choice between a right-
wing programme based on free-market ideas and a left-winger
promising to safeguard the country's "social model".


Voting starts on Saturday for some 882,000 citizens in overseas
French dependencies as well as for 820,000 expatriates who can
vote in embassies and consulates abroad.


All eight other candidates have been polling at less than five
percent. They include three Trotskyites, a Communist, a Green and
anti-capitalist campaigner Jose Bove. The other two are a
hunters' rights candidate and the Catholic nationalist Philippe
de Villiers.

