

Bollywood stars Aishwarya Rai and Abhishek Bachchan were married
Friday in a traditional Hindu ceremony, capping three days of
celebrations for Indian cinema's hottest couple.


There was chaos on the streets outside the two families' Bachchan
residences, as more than a thousand fans jostled to catch a
glimpse of the former Miss World and the son of veteran Indian
screen icon Amitabh Bachchan.


The relatively low-key wedding nevertheless passed off smoothly,
with the couple walking around the holy fire seven times to
complete their marriage.


Unlike usual Indian weddings where the guest list can run into
thousands of people, the ceremony late on Friday was restricted
to around 100 close friends and family.


Rai, 33, wore a traditional red saree for the ceremony, while the
32-year-old groom sported a traditional turban and sherwani coat.


The holy rituals were continuing late into the evening, insiders
said, which will bind the couple in marriage for their next seven
lives.


The marathon of ceremonies kicked off on Wednesday with
elaborately choreographed song-and-dance routines.


More than 500 police have been on hand to keep out gatecrashers,
according to media reports.


Huge efforts have been made to keep the festivities private and
to exclude the media.


The Bachchans have asked owners of neighbouring buildings not to
allow photographers to shoot pictures from roofs, while the gates
of Bachchan's residence are now mirrored so fans trying to peer
inside would see only their refection -- in line with an Indian
custom to ward off the evil eye.


The pair -- known here as "Abhiash", or India's answer to Brad
Pitt and Angelina Jolie's "Brangelina" partnership -- have
starred together in at least five movies and are seen as a
dynamite box office duo.


Bollywood movies have a huge following around the world,
especially in nations with a large Indian diaspora such as
Britain, Malaysia, Singapore and South Africa.


The only controversy involved a "mentally disturbed" and little-
known Bollywood actress attempted suicide ahead of the wedding,
claiming Abhishek had promised to marry her, police said Friday.


Janavi Kapoor, who is in her mid-20s and goes by the screen name
of Naina, turned up at a local police station Thursday night with
a slashed wrist. She also asked to register a complaint against
Bachchan, whom she says cheated on her.


Janavi starred in a song-and-dance sequence in Abhishek's movie
"Dus" in 2005, and claimed they had a year-long affair and that
he had promised to marry her.


"Abhishek had promised to disclose the nature of our
relationship," the girl was quoted as saying by Indian news
channels.


The police, however, did not register her complaint.


"She appeared to be in a disturbed state of mind and in
depression. We urged her to come back with her parents (on
Friday) to register her case," senior police inspector Pradeep
Shinde of Juhu police station told AFP.

