

Senior US and Indian officials will meet here next week amid US
"frustration" at the pace of negotiations on a landmark deal to
give India access to US nuclear technology, a US spokesman said
Friday.


Indian Foreign Secretary Shiv Shanker Menon will be in Washington
Monday and Tuesday and will meet with Under Secretary of State
Nicholas Burns to discuss the negotiations, State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said.


McCormack said there was "some frustration on the part of the
administration as well as Congress on the pace of these
negotiations."


"We still have faith that we're going to be able to get this
agreement done, but we're at a stage in these particular
negotiations where we think we need to raise the level of
dialogue to a political level," he said.


The agreement, initially reached in July 2006, gives India
unprecedented access to US nuclear fuel and technology for its
civilian power sector without requiring New Delhi to sign a
nuclear weapons non-proliferation treaty as normally required by
US law.


The deal has been defended by President George W. Bush's
administration as the centerpiece of a new relationship between
the US and India following decades of Cold War tensions.


But the negotiations have bogged down, notably over India's
refusal to commit formally to its voluntary unilateral moratorium
on nuclear weapons testing and its insistence the deal gives it
the right to reprocess nuclear fuel.


Both elements would contravene US laws.


McCormack said an experts level meeting to discuss the
outstanding differences was held in South Africa earlier this
week but failed to make headway, prompting Washington to request
next week's talks.


While not going into details of the Indian demands, McCormack
said they had "suggested solutions that would require us to
change our laws, and we're not going to do that."


The US Congress passed a law in December paving the way for the
Indian civil nuclear arrangement, and implementing the agreement
now under negotiation will also have to be approved by the
legislature.


Despite the US frustration, McCormack said Washington was not
"questioning the Indian government's goodwill and good faith" on
the issue and expressed optimism "that these negotiations will
ultimately yield an agreement."

