

EU foreign ministers will next week consider widening a travel
ban on those deemed responsible for Zimbabwe's "rapidly
deteriorating human rights, political and economic situation".


The ban currently cover some 130 people, including President
Robert Mugabe, his current and former cabinets and leaders of his
ruling Zanu-PF party.


A draft conclusion, prepared for an EU foreign ministers meeting
in Luxembourg on Monday, states that "in response to the acts of
violence and abuses of human rights" in Zimbabwe the 27 EU
nations "will extend the visa ban list".


The draft, to be agreed or amended by the ministers when they
meet, gives no details of which names may be added to the list
but stresses the travel ban is "exclusively aimed at those
leading figures responsible for Zimbabwe's crisis of governance
and abuses of human rights".


The travel ban is accompanied by an assets freeze for those on
the list and an arms embargo. The sanctions were extended in
February for another 12 months.


The European Union slapped sanctions on President Robert Mugabe
and his government after the long-serving ruler won elections in
2002 which the opposition insists were rigged.


Last month the Germany called for tougher EU sanctions against
Zimbabwe in protest at Mugabe's crackdown on the opposition.


Long-standing political tensions in Zimbabwe deteriorated in
March when state security agents assaulted opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai and scores of supporters and shot dead an
activist as they broke up an anti-government rally.


In the foreign ministers draft text, seen by AFP Friday, the EU
"condemns in particular the acts of violent expression against
the opposition".


It also vows to continue contributing to humanitarian operations.
EU funding activities to the Zimbabwean people last year amounted
to 193 million euros (262 million dollars).


The ministers will also hail the efforts of Zimbabwe's neighbours
to limit destabilisation in the region and the mandate handed to
South African President Thabo Mbeki to help dialogue between the
government and the opposition there.

