

Sri Lanka wicketkeeper Kumar Sangakkara has accused critics of
double standards after the angry response to the decision to rest
Muttiah Muralitharan and Chaminda Vaas from the World Cup clash
against Australia.


The two veteran bowlers were left out of the April 16 Super
Eights game  after both sides had already made sure of their
places in the semi-finals.


Many accused Sri Lanka of cheapening the World Cup by their
decision to allow the players to take a breather although both
men, veterans of the 1996 World Cup winning team, returned for
the win over Ireland two days later.


"Much of the analysis has been ill-informed, offered without
great thought or deep understanding of this Sri Lanka team,"
wrote Sangakkara in his www.cricinfo.com column.


"Consequently, many of the critics have been wide of the mark in
their conclusions. I question whether double standards are being
applied here by some pundits.


"Nearly all top cricket playing nations have rotational policies
that they put into action during heavily congested schedules.
Australia, for example, regularly rest their senior players in
group matches once their qualification (and sometimes even
before) has been confirmed.


"What then is the difference between resting players in the CB
Series or the World Cup?


"Will some of the television "experts" now calling for ICC
intervention do the same when Ricky Ponting or Stephen Fleming or
Graeme Smith next rests a strike bowler? I doubt it."


Sangakkara, preparing for the first semi-final which takes place
in Jamaica on Tuesday probably against New Zealand, said
decisions are based on what's best for the team's chances.


Sri Lanka are looking to win their second World Cup title to add
to their 1996 victory.


"Some of the critics appear to think that the Australia game was
our most important game in the tournament. Why - just because we
were playing Australia? That's nonsense.


"The simple fact was it was the least important game of our World
Cup. Even the Bermuda game was more important.


"We are here to win the World Cup. Everything we do is focused on
that goal. We don't care about morale-boosting victories.


"We do care deeply, though, about making sure we are completely
ready and properly prepared when each crunch game comes along.
The Australia game was not a crunch game.


"The semi-final against New Zealand on April 24 is.


"We rested Muralitharan, Chaminda Vaas and Lasith Malinga in the
best interests of the individuals and the team. We had to make
sure they were at peak fitness and completely rested when we
start on the morning of the 24th in Jamaica.


"All three have minor niggles that benefited from not playing. We
are now confident that they will be in the best possible physical
shape they could be for the semi-finals. It was a decision we're
entirely comfortable with.


"Murali and Vaasy are the lynchpins of our attack. They have been
for years and they remain so in this tournament - albeit with
good support from Malinga, Dilhara Fernando and Farveez Maharoof.


"True, Vaas and Murali may have played many games against
Australia during their long careers, but Sri Lanka have not
played Australia in the last 14 months and only six members of
Australia's current team played in that match in Brisbane.


"Giving Australia's batsmen a free look-in was not to our
advantage if we meet again."

