

European Union countries reacted coolly Friday to calls for them
to accept some Iraqi refugees sheltered by Jordan, under a
resettlement policy backed by the United Nations.


"With the money it takes to resettle one person in Europe, we
could help at least 10 people in the region," said German
Interior Minister Wolfgang Schauble, after chairing a meeting of
his EU counterparts in Luxembourg.


EU Justice Commissioner Franco Frattini said that "a small number
of states" had suggested that they were willing to accept a few
of the most vulnerable refugees, such as women and children.


He said that six or seven of the EU's 27 member countries --
mainly the Scandinavian nations -- already have small-scale
reinstallation programmes and that he hoped a bloc-wide policy
would be developed on the issue.


The United Nations estimates that some two million people out of
a population of 26 million have left Iraq since the US-led war in
2003 while another 1.7 million have fled their homes to safer
areas inside the country.


Sweden takes in more than half of all Iraqi asylum seekers to
Europe and it wants its EU partners to share the burden and help
provide more funds to states neighbouring Iraq, such as Jordan,
Syria and Iran.


A total of 9,065 Iraqis sought asylum in the Scandinavian country
last year compared to 2,330 the previous year, according to
official figures. More than 80 percent of Iraqi asylum requests
since January 2006 have been approved.


A European expert said that any EU programme would be a small
one.


"Even if there were a European resettlement programme, we would
be talking about a maximum of 10,000 to 12,000 people," he said.


To help countries like Sweden, the European Commission announced
that it would make available around seven million euros (9.5
million dollars) in financial aid.


More than 10 million euros in aid have already been earmarked for
Jordan, Lebanon and Syria help them cope with the influx, and the
EU's executive body said it was ready to provide a further two
million euros.

