

The UN's top legal adviser on Friday called for a return to
dialogue in divided Lebanon and for the prompt creation of the
tribunal to resolve the 2005 murder of former premier Rafiq
Hariri.


"The establishment of this tribunal will be a victory... for all
the Lebanese," Nicolas Michel said after meeting Prime Minister
Fuad Siniora and parliament speaker Nabih Berri, a leading
opposition figure.


"I hope our efforts will bear fruit" in helping Lebanese leaders
return to dialogue for the "earliest establishment" of the
international court to try suspects in Hariri's murder by a
Beirut car bomb, he said.


Michel said he hoped that his efforts to bridge the gap among the
divided Lebanese politicians would see results "in the next few
days." He did not elaborate.


Since he arrived in Beirut on Tuesday, Michel has met all
prominent Lebanese leaders in a bid to unblock months of
political paralysis preventing the Hariri court from being
established.


Billionaire former premier Hariri was killed by a massive bomb
widely blamed on Syria, which was then forced to end nearly 30
years of military and political domination in Lebanon. Syria
denied any involvement in the killing.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but this must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament. Berri, a main pro-Syrian figure in the
opposition, refuses to convene parliament.


Hassan Nasrallah, leader of the main opposition party Hezbollah
which is backed by Syria and Iran, said the court in its current
proposed form was "conceived in such a way that it would return
pre-established verdicts."


Hezbollah officials who met Michel refused to give him the
proposed changes they wanted made to the court, saying they would
only present them to a "legitimate" Lebanese government.


The opposition deems the Siniora government as illegitimate since
all five representatives of the Shiite community resigned last
November.


The rump anti-Syrian Lebanese cabinet accuses pro-Damascus
ministers of quitting to sabotage the court plans at the behest
of Syrian officials, some of whom have been implicated in
Hariri's murder by a UN probe commission.


The Beirut government has called for the UN Security Council to
impose the setting up of the tribunal if the opposition continues
to block it.


Michel said he was leaving Lebanon on Saturday and would brief
the Security Council in New York, which will then rule on the
issue.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is due to visit Damascus on
April 24.

