

European Union foreign ministers will next week renew sanctions
against Myanmar's military regime, which restrict travel by
officials and prevent investment there, an EU official said
Friday.


The sanctions, originally introduced in 1996 after Yangon failed
to meet EU demands for greater democracy, will be "rolled over"
with agreement of all 27 members but without debate when EU
foreign ministers meet in Luxembourg on Monday for a regular get-
together, the official said.


The EU notably wants Myanmar to free opposition leader Aung San
Suu Kyi, to launch a national dialogue for reconciliation and end
human rights abuses.


"The European Union does not see any progress made," by the
regime, the official said, adding that "there are continuing
concerns over human rights".


Under the sanctions, renewed annually, members of the ruling
military junta and their families are forbidden from entering EU
member states. The EU has also forbidden EU companies or
organisations from making investments in Myanmar.


The military has spelled out a "road map" for democracy,
including talks on a new constitution, but Aung San Suu Kyi's
party has boycotted the process, which critics have called a
sham.


The junta again suspended constitutional talks in January after
just two months of deliberation, dashing any hopes of ending the
process this year and deepening international frustration over
the lack of reforms.


EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner
admitted last month that until Yangon improves its human rights
record, it is unlikely that the European Union will be able to
reach a trade agreement encompassing the countries of the
Southeast Asian grouping ASEAN, of which Myanmar is a member.


Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party won elections in
1990 but was barred from taking power by the military.


She has spent most of the subsequent 17 years under house arrest,
during which time her husband, Michael Aris, died and her
children have grown up.


pvh/loc/ awb

