

A leading environmentalist argued Friday that Canadians are ready
to adopt costly measures to curb greenhouse gas emissions, though
the government warns that could mean economic doom.


"Canadians are ready to make polluters pay ... and they're not
afraid of paying more" for cleaner technologies or to reduce
their own ecological footprint, David Suzuki said at the cusp of
a three-month tour of Canada.


Suzuki is renowned for his books, television and radio broadcasts
on nature and the environment since the 1970s.


Based on his dialogue with 30,000 Canadians, he outlined five
priorities in the fight to stem global warming: building more
public transit, introduction of a carbon tax, tougher
environmental legislation, more protections for species at risk,
and the creation of a national program to penalize polluters.


"It's clear that public opinion has undergone a fundamental
shift. Canadians are no longer debating whether or not climate
change is occurring. Rather they're discussing what to do about
it," Suzuki said.


"Canadians have changed their thinking, but they need leadership
to change their behavior," he said. "Politicians have an
opportunity to do the right thing because the people are behind
them."


Thursday, Environment Minister John Baird outlined a doomsday
economic scenario if Ottawa imposed tough new measures to cut
carbon emissions in order to meet Canada's Kyoto Protocol
commitment.


He told a senate committee reviewing a private member's bill to
try to force the minority Conservative government to meet its
Kyoto timetable that these emissions cuts would have "a
devastating effect on the Canadian economy."


More than 275,000 Canadians would lose their jobs by 2009 and
Canada's unemployment rate would rise by 25 percent, he
predicted.


Canada's economy meanwhile would decline by more than 6.5 percent
relative to current projections in 2008, falling about 4.2
percent or about 51 billion Canadian dollars (45 billion US)
below the 2007 level.


"That implies a deep recession in 2008," Baird said.


"I believe this is a massive and unacceptable cost for Canadian
families," he concluded.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012,
but a 2006 government environmental audit found emissions had
instead increased by 26.6 percent.


Prime Minister Stephen Harper has maintained that the Kyoto
targets, agreed to by a previous Liberal government, are
unattainable.


Suzuki, whose science TV show "The Nature of Things" has been
syndicated in more than 40 countries, dismissed Baird's economic
forecast, saying Canada faced "total economic ruination" if
Ottawa does nothing to cut CO2 emissions.


Long skeptical about climate change and its causes, the US
administration earlier this month finally acknowledged the
"global challenge" facing the planet and called for international
solutions.


"Climate change is clearly a global challenge and we all
recognize that it requires global solutions," Sharon Hays, leader
of the US delegation at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) said April 6.


A summary of the IPCC's latest technical report warned of
devastating damage on all continents from global warming, saying
that the resulting climate change is set to hit poor countries
hardest, and threatens nearly a third of the world's species with
extinction.

