

Two separate coal mining accidents trapped 19 miners underground
in China on Friday, state media reported, capping an horrific
week for the country's notoriously dangerous coal mining
industry.


Nine miners have already been confirmed dead, 33 others given "no
chance" of survival, and another 41 are now trapped in six
separate accidents across the country since Monday, Xinhua news
agency and mining industry authorities said.


The latest accidents occurred Friday afternoon and included a
mine shaft collapse in Chongqing municipality in southwestern
China that left eight miners trapped, Xinhua reported, giving no
other details.


Earlier Friday, a gas explosion at the Tao'er mine in the
northern Hebei province left 11 miners trapped, Xinhua reported.


Handan was also the scene on Thursday of a separate accident that
killed nine miners and left another eight missing, according to
Xinhua.


Rescue efforts were reportedly under way in both Handan
accidents.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with 4,746 workers dying in 2,845 accidents last year,
according to official figures.


However, independent labour groups put the death toll at as many
as 20,000 annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to
avoid fines and closure.


Safety standards are routinely ignored in the race to meet
soaring demand in a country that relies on coal for around 70
percent of its energy needs.


The dangers have been underlined in grim fashion this week.


Thirty-three workers, who were trapped early in the week in a
mine in central Henan province, have been given "no chance of
survival" and rescue efforts have been called off, according to a
notice issued Friday by the State Administration of Coal Mine
Safety.


A gas explosion had struck the privately-owned Wangzhuang mine on
Monday, and rescue efforts were severely hampered by a subsequent
fire and collapse of mine shafts, Xinhua had reported.


The mining safety authority said an inspection last week found
the mine in violation of safety regulations and that its
management had ignored an order to shut down.


Five people in connection with the mine have been arrested after
trying to flee following the disaster and an unspecified number
of others are being sought.


Also on Monday, 12 people were trapped when a mine in central
Hunan province flooded, state media had reported.


They remained unaccounted for as of Thursday, Xinhua said. Their
status on Friday could not be immediately confirmed.


A mine collapse on Monday in northern Heilongjiang province has
left another two missing, Xinhua reported. An update on their
condition also could not be obtained.

