

World oil prices recovered slightly on Friday as traders fretted
over supply worries amid violence in Nigeria, the world's sixth-
biggest oil exporter.


Market participants fear that continued violence in the run-up to
Nigeria's presidential elections this weekend may disrupt
supplies from Africa's biggest crude-producing nation.


In London on Friday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June
delivery gained 36 cents to 66.30 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, rebounded 87 cents to 62.70 dollars per barrel
in floor trading after heavy losses the previous day. The
contract expires at the close.


"Crude futures were firmer today (Friday) ... ahead of the
Nigerian presidential elections this weekend," said Michael
Davies, an analyst at the Sucden brokerage in London.


"There have been violent demonstrations recently, with the
opposition holding a protest rally ahead of the election and
during last week's state polls."


Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo has called for a crackdown
on vote rigging ahead of Nigeria's landmark presidential election
on Saturday after a campaign marked by violence and political
turmoil.


At least 20 people were killed in election-linked violence in
Nigeria's initial state elections last weekend amid accusations
of fraud and vote-rigging.


Oil prices in New York slumped by 1.30 dollars on Thursday as US
refiners ramped up their gasoline or petrol output, and the
market put lingering Iran-related geopolitical jitters
temporarily aside.


The refining news offset data published on Wednesday by the US
Department of Energy (DoE) that showed US gasoline reserves fell
2.7 million barrels last week, the 10th consecutive drop and
heavier than forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million.


Dealers are watching gasoline statistics closely before the US
summer driving season kicks off next month, when many Americans
hit the roads for their vacations.


Concerns about Iran's controversial nuclear programme meanwhile
continued to occupy the market.


The UN atomic watchdog said late on Wednesday that Iran, the
world's fourth- biggest crude producer, had started feeding
uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has
installed more than 1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


Analysts are worried that the Islamic Republic, which is the
fourth-biggest global crude producer, could respond by slashing
exports.


Elsewhere, analysts shrugged off market concern that China's
impressive economic growth during the first quarter could result
in Beijing raising interest rates and thus crimping Asian crude
demand.


China's economy grew by 11.1 percent in the first quarter,
compared with the first three months of 2006, according to
official data released Thursday.


The Asian powerhouse is the world's second largest energy
consumer after the United States.

