

India and the United States will try to iron out differences next
week over a crucial civilian nuclear deal amid impatience by
Washington over the slow pace of talks, officials said Saturday.


Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon will be in Washington
on Monday and Tuesday to hold negotiations with US Under
Secretary of State Nicholas Burns to propel the dialogue forward.


The talks have been stalled mainly over concerns in India that
the agreement will seek to curtail the country's nuclear weapons
programme.


India has a "very clear approach" on the deal, Menon said in a
report tabled in parliament on Thursday, even as Washington
expressed its unhappiness over the dialogue last week.


His comment came after US State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said in Washington there was "some frustration on the
part of the administration as well as Congress on the pace of
these negotiations."


Indian officials tried to downplay the US remarks.


"When you hold talks, there are bound to be differences," said a
senior government official, who did not wish to be named.


The talks are to implement an accord struck in July 2005 giving
India access to US nuclear fuel and technology for civilian use
without requiring New Delhi to sign the nuclear non-proliferation
treaty as required by US law.


But differences persist, chiefly over a clause which states the
US would withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and equipment if
India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear testing.


India atomic scientists and critics say the agreement will put
restrictions on the country's nuclear weapons programme.


Ahead of the meeting, Menon sought to dispel the fears.


"Whatever we do with the US will not affect our nuclear strategic
programme," Menon said.


Experts warned that India must act fast on the deal.


"There is genuine concern about the delay. India is not the
centre of the universe for them," said G. Balachandran, Visiting
Fellow at security think-tank Institute for Defence Studies and
Analyses.


"They will get preoccupied with (presidential) elections next
year," he said.


The nuclear policy expert said a likely outcome was a compromise
on the wording of the agreement.


"The differences are over the consequences of nuclear testing.
The Americans can't take away the right to test. It's a matter of
reaching a compromise over the wording of the deal, not a
compromise of interests," he said.


The nuclear energy deal is the centrepiece of India's new
relationship with Washington after decades of Cold War tensions
and is part of New Delhi's efforts to expand energy sources to
sustain its booming economy.


Under the nuclear agreement, India also wants the explicit right
to reprocess nuclear fuel, in contradiction of the US law.


Indian experts said New Delhi also opposes another clause which
provides for US inspection of its nuclear facilities in case the
International Atomic Energy Commission fails to do so.


Under the deal, India has agreed to separate its civilian and
military nuclear facilities and allow inspection of the civilian
ones.

