

Sri Lankans were stocking up on snacks, soft drinks, ice cream
and liquor on Saturday to watch their home team battle Australia
at the cricket World Cup finals in the Caribbean.


Supermarkets, grocery and wine stores were reporting brisk sales
as customers stood in lengthy queues.


"It took us nearly an hour to pay for few bottles of soft drinks,
ice creams and snacks," said Marisa de Silva. "People are just
going crazy buying up food to watch the match. A win is worth the
long queue."


Cricket is hugely popular in Sri Lanka and is seen as one of the
few unifying elements that cut through political and ethnic lines
amid escalating fighting between troops and Tamil Tiger rebels.


The nation is set to come to a standstill for Saturday's final in
Barbados against Australia, despite the time lag.


The streets will be deserted for the game, which -- if Tuesday's
semi-final is anything to go by -- will start in mid-evening
Colombo time and last until three or four in the morning.


Sri Lanka's state-run Rupavahini television station said more
than 14 million people out of the 19.5 million population were
expected to watch the live broadcast of the finals.


However, security remained tight in the capital to ward off
possible Tamil Tiger attacks.


"Senior officers in the operational areas have been told to
maintain maximum alert today (Saturday)," a police spokesman
said. "They must ensure that the men under them do not abandon
their posts to go and watch cricket."


On Tuesday, the guns fell quiet while Sri Lanka were defeating
New Zealand in the semi-final, after the Tigers announced that
they would be watching the game, and the hope is for another
respite for the final.


No attacks were reported on either side, but five hours after the
match the rebels were accused of setting off a roadside mine.


A Tiger spokesman declined to say whether the rebels would repeat
Tuesday's unofficial break, saying only that Tiger chief
Velupillai Prabhakaran was a "lover of all sports."


Sri Lanka does not allow betting on cricket but locals can try
their luck at few gaming sites that are offering online betting.


Having not lost a single World Cup match since 1999, Australia
remain the favourites among bookies, with gaming website
bet365.com offering odds of two- to-five.


The gaming site is offering odds of two-to-one for a Sri Lankan
win.

