

Australia captain Ricky Ponting won the toss and elected to bat
against Sri Lanka in the World Cup final at Kensington Oval here
Saturday.


Rain delayed the scheduled 09.30am local (1330GMT) start time but
with the match due to get underway at 10.15am (1415GMT) the game
remained a 50 overs per side contest.


Australia were bidding for a third straight title and fourth in
all, both unprecedented achievements in the nine-edition history
of the World Cup.


They came into this match on the back of a record run of 28 games
unbeaten in World Cup cricket, including 22 straight wins.


Australia were unchanged from the side that beat South Africa by
seven wickets in Wednesday's semi-final in St Lucia.


This match was fast bowler Glenn McGrath's last before
retirement. The 37-year- old was appearing in his fourth
successive World Cup final, having also been on the losing side
when Sri Lanka beat Australia in 1996.


Ahead of the Final, he had 70 World Cup wickets; his 25 to date
in the 2007 edition was already a record for a single event.


Sri Lanka, whose team contained three survivors from the side
that won the World Cup 11 years ago (Sanath Jayasuriya, Chaminda
Vaas and Muttiah Muralitharan), were also unchanged following
their 81-run win in Tuesday's semi-final against New Zealand in
Jamaica.


Fast bowler Dilhara Fernando, whose five overs against the Black
Caps cost an expensive 45 runs, retained his place despite
reports from Sri Lanka he would be dropped.


Australia beat Sri Lanka by seven wickets in Grenada when the
sides last met in a Super Eights, second round, World Cup match
on April 16.


West Indian umpire Steve Bucknor extended his own record by
standing in a fifth successive World Cup Final.


Teams


Australia: Matthew Hayden, Adam Gilchrist (wk), Ricky Ponting
(capt), Michael Clarke, Andrew Symonds, Michael Hussey, Shane
Watson, Brad Hogg, Nathan Bracken, Shaun Tait, Glenn McGrath


Sri Lanka: Upul Tharanga, Sanath Jayasuriya, Kumar Sangakkara
(wk), Mahela Jaywardene (capt), Chamara Silva, Tillakaratne
Dilshan, Russel Arnold, Chaminda Vaas, Lasith Malinga, Muttiah
Muralitharan, Dilhara Fernando


Umpires: Steve Bucknor (WIS) and Aleem Dar (PAK)


TV umpire: Rudi Koertzen (RSA)


Reserve umpire: Billy Bowden (NZL)


Match referee: Jeff Crowe (NZL)


Pitch conditions: Hard, fast pitch expected with good bounce.


Weather: Sunshine and showers, temperature rising to 84 degrees
Fahrenheit (29 degrees Celsius).

