

Pakistan and Afghanistan are to hold crucial summit talks in
Turkey to ease friction and develop a joint strategy on fighting
the Taliban insurgency, officials confirmed Saturday.


Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and his Afghan counterpart
Hamid Karzai were due in the Turkish capital Sunday, the
Pakistani embassy in Ankara said.


The two leaders would attend a dinner meeting hosted by Turkish
President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, followed by a formal round of
bilateral talks on Monday.


Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan, whose country has troops
with NATO in Afghanistan, would also host a working lunch for
them.


"The summit meeting is crucial in thrashing out differences and
evolving a joint strategy to fighting terrorism," Pakistani
embassy spokesman Majeed Niazi told AFP by telephone.


Mutual recriminations have clouded relations between Afghanistan
and Pakistan, both key US allies in the fight against terrorism.


Kabul accuses Islamabad of not doing enough to stop militants
crossing from its tribal areas into Afghanistan to abet the
Taliban insurgency which claimed 4,000 lives last year.


Islamabad says it has taken effective measures and accuses
Afghanistan of shifting the blame on to Pakistan for its own
failures in tackling the Taliban, a booming drug trade and
warlords impeding the government's writ in the country.


Musharraf has repeatedly stressed that Pakistan, once the main
backer of the Taliban regime, has deployed 90,000 troops in the
tribal areas and set up more than 1,000 military checkposts along
the 2,500-kilometre (1,600-mile) frontier.


Ahead of the Ankara meeting, Musharraf in an interview published
Thursday with a Spanish newspaper bitterly criticised Karzai.


"Those who do nothing against terrorism, like Karzai, are also
the ones who criticise those who are fighting, like us,"
Musharraf, who is on a tour of three European countries, told El
Pais daily.


"Those who say that the ISI (Pakistani military intelligence)
helps the Taliban because we want a weak Afghanistan are liars."


Karazi the same day told a media briefing in Kabul that he was
optimistic about the outcome of the Ankara summit.


"We attend this meeting to find a solution for a problem which is
gripping Afghanistan, Pakistan and the region with good
intentions. We hope to come with good achievements," Karzai said.


"We hope to have achievements for peace in the region, peace in
Afghanistan and Pakistan, from the tripartite meeting..."


Pakistan is also experiencing fallout from the Taliban spillover
as extremists in its tribal territory are becoming increasingly
powerful, forcing the government to enter into peace deals with
them.


The peace deals which were viewed with suspicion in Kabul and
Washington led to a tribal uprising against foreign militants in
south Waziristan. During the last two months tribal fighters have
killed 300 foreign Al-Qaeda militants.


Karzai and Musharraf last met for talks in Washington in
September, when US President George W. Bush brought them together
to try to ease tensions, but failed to calm down the two sides.


There are nearly 50,000 US and NATO troops in Afghanistan to
fight the Taliban, whose five-year regime was toppled in a US-led
military blitz in late 2001 for harbouring Al-Qaeda leader Osama
bin Laden.

