

A French woman held hostage by the Taliban has been freed, the
French foreign ministry said on Saturday, confirming an earlier
statement from the militant group in Afghanistan.


"The French authorities confirm that one of the members of the
Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) organisation held
hostage has indeed been freed this morning (Saturday) in
Afghanistan," it said in a brief statement.


"The release was the result of three weeks of efforts, which
should continue with the same determination and the same
discretion to secure the release of the other hostages."


Earlier in the day, Afghan Taliban militants said they had freed
a French woman captured more than three weeks ago. They also
extended by a week a deadline for demands to be met for the
release of four men taken with her.


The two French nationals and three Afghans working for the French
non- governmental organisation went missing on April 3 in the
southwestern province of Nimroz.


The NGO's chairman, Antoine Vuillaume, told reporters on Saturday
that the French woman was now "travelling to Kabul accompanied by
French authorities".


"Celine is extremely worn out after 24 days in captivity. She is
very weak," he said after meeting with French Foreign Minister
Philippe Douste-Blazy.


"Clearly this is a first sign of hope. In any case it is a first
result, it is a great relief, and brings hope for the other four
people."


French President Jacques Chirac said in a brief statement that he
"rejoiced" in the hostage's release, adding: "Everyone must now
redouble efforts to obtain (the release) of the other hostages
with the greatest discretion."


The Taliban said on April 20 they wanted France to withdraw its
1,000 troops with NATO's International Security Assistance Force
in Afghanistan and for certain Taliban prisoners to be freed in
exchange for the hostages.


Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said Friday there was no
plan for the troops to stay for the long-term.


The Taliban, driven from power by a US-led coalition in 2001,
target mainly troops and government workers in an increasingly
intense campaign that has claimed around 1,000 lives this year,
by an AFP count.

