

Sir Alex Ferguson promised he would treat Sam Allardyce to a hug
and a kiss after Bolton held Chelsea to a draw that leaves
Manchester United on the brink of reclaiming the Premiership
title.


After watching United come from two goals down to beat Everton
4-2 and pull five points clear at the top of the table, Ferguson
acknowledged that Allardyce's men had done him a huge favour by
holding the champions to a 2-2 draw at Stamford Bridge.


"Sam will be getting a hug and a kiss," the Scot said with a
smile. "Maybe two kisses!"


The results mean that United, thanks to their superior goal
difference, need to take four points from their remaining three
games to be sure of winning the title, and they could have
wrapped it up before they travel to Chelsea for their penultimate
match of the season on May 9.


If Ferguson's side beat local rivals Manchester City next
Saturday and Chelsea fail to beat Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium
the following day, United will be champions for the first time
since 2003.


"Obviously the momentum is with us now," Ferguson said. "Five
points clear and with a superior goal difference gives us a
marvellous chance with three games left."


The United boss cautioned however that the lunchtime trip to City
would come in the wake of a gruelling trip to Italy for
Wednesday's Champions League semi- final second leg against AC
Milan.


"We know what that can do to the players. It will be very
difficult and we can't count any chickens yet. But there is
marvellous spirit in the camp and I think that is going to play
for us."


Initially lacklustre, United had looked doomed to defeat at
Goodison Park when Portuguese midfielder Manuel Fernandes
hammered an stoppable 25-yarder past Edwin van der Sar, five
minutes after half-time, to double the lead established by Alan
Stubbs's first-half free-kick.


But a howler by Everton's stand-in goalkeeper, Iain Turner,
allowed United back into the contest.


The Scot, only playing because Tim Howard was prevented from
doing so under the terms of his season-long loan from United,
dropped a cross to leave John O'Shea with a simple finish.


"That was a break for us," admitted Ferguson, who reacted to the
goal by gambling on the introduction of Cristiano Ronaldo,
despite his star winger carrying a minor injury.


The Portuguese winger had an immediate impact, rising to meet a
corner with a powerful downward header that former United player
Phil Neville sliced into his own net.


That set the stage for Wayne Rooney to effectively settle the
contest with 11 minutes left and, with news of the Chelsea result
filtering through, substitute Chris Eagles curled in United's
fourth.


At Stamford Bridge, Bolton grabbed the lead after the Chelsea
back four made a hash of dealing with a 19th-minute corner, the
ball falling to Lubomir Michalik, who lashed it home from close
range.


The champions were level inside three minutes, Salomon Kalou
heading in a Wayne Bridge cross, and went ahead when Kalou's
header ricocheted off the bar, a Bolton defender and finally
goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen before ending up in the back of the
net.


Bolton refused to give up the fight however and, nine minutes
after the interval, Kevin Davies grabbed an equaliser with a
close-range header and Sam Allardyce's side held out for a draw
under the inevitable late barrage from Jose Mourinho's men.

