

The Western Stormers continued their good form when they
outscored the Queensland Reds five tries to two to record a
convincing 37-24 win in a Super 14 match here Saturday.


The victory for the Stormers, following their surprising win over
the Auckland Blues last week, took them to 27 points on the
standings, while the 10th defeat for the Reds leaves them on 11
points and bottom of the table.


It was the sixth win for the Stormers in their campaign of the
southern hemisphere inter-provincial rugby competition.


With nothing riding on the result the match never reached any
great heights, but for Springboks Brent Russell and Joe van
Niekerk it was a night they'll remember for some time to come.


Both produced good performances a week out from Jake White naming
his first Springbok squad of the year.


It was a rather dull opening quarter with neither side coming
close to crossing the tryline, and both teams were guilty of
giving away a number of penalties, especially at the breakdowns.


Reds fullback Clinton Schifcofske scored all 12 his team's first
half points thanks to four successful penalties, while the
Stormers scored through flyhalf Peter Grant, who knocked over two
penalties, and captain Luke Watson, who crossed the Reds tryline
on two occasions.


Watson went over in the 26th minute after receiving an inside
pass from scrumhalf JP Joubert after a drive towards the line by
the forwards was stopped by the Reds and he crossed again four
minutes later, again after taking an inside pass, but this time
it was from Van Niekerk. Grant converted both tries.


After going into the break 20-12 up, the home side extended their
lead almost immediately after the restart when left winger
Russell finished off a move which started deep inside the
Stormers' own half and featured Van Niekerk and centre De Wet
Barry who did excellently with ball in hand to send the speedy
Russell on his way.


Grant's simple conversion made it 27-12 for the men from Cape
Town.


Then at the midway point of the second period the Reds finally
found a way through the Stormers defence via veteran centre Ben
Tune, but straight from the restart the Stormers hit back with a
five-pointer after Russell had charged down a clearance kick by
Andrew Walker and then dived on the ball inside the in-goal area.


The two extra points from Grant's conversion made it 32-19 for
the home side.


The Stormers then made sure of the win when, with 13 minutes
remaining, No 8 Van Niekerk crashed over in the left-hand corner.


The men from Queensland, however, got a second try on the stroke
of fulltime when replacement hooker Sean Hardman went over from a
lineout.


The Reds finish their campaign against the Northern Bulls in
Pretoria next weekend, while the Stormers host the Coastal Sharks
in Cape Town. Both the Bulls and Sharks need to win their games
to secure a semifinal place.

