

Hamas political chief Khaled Meshaal warned on Saturday of the
dangers of pursuing the economic and political blockade of the
Palestinians, who are "on the verge of exploding."


"The Palestinian people will not be patient under this pressure
and they have several options before them if need be," Meshaal
told reporters in Cairo after a meeting with Arab League
Secretary General Amr Mussa.


"The Palestinian unity government has been in place for almost
two months and the sanctions remain the main issue for the
Palestinians, after they had large hopes following the formation
of the government," he said.


A Palestinian unity government, putting Fatah and Hamas around
the same cabinet table for the first time, took office in March
after Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and Meshaal reached a
power-sharing agreement in Saudi Arabia in February.


That deal sought to end months of factional fighting between the
two that left scores dead after Meshaal's Islamist party won
Palestinian legislative elections in January 2006.


The new government has since battled to end the diplomatic and
economic boycott imposed by the West on the previous Hamas-led
government for its refusal to recognise Israel and past Israeli-
Palestinian agreements.


Meshaal urged Arabs and Muslims to support the Palestinian people
"because the Palestinian situation is one the verge of
exploding."


"The first step to lift the sanctions must be an Arab one," he
said.


On Friday Meshaal held rare talks with Abbas in Cairo, their
first meeting since forming the coalition government.


The two discussed the internal situation, the fragile ceasefire
and the prisoner exchange.


On Tuesday, the ruling Hamas movement's armed wing, the Ezzedine
al-Qassam Brigades, declared a five-month truce with Israel over
after nine Palestinians were killed in Israeli raids last week.


The firing of rockets "is part of the right of the Palestinian
people in defending themselves and responding to the massacres,"
Meshaal said, as more Palestinians were killed by Israeli gunfire
in the Gaza Strip.

