

Police and security forces sealed off Sri Lanka's capital on
Saturday, searching every vehicle entering and leaving the city
amid fears of a Tamil Tiger attack, officials said.


There were huge traffic jams at every entry point to Colombo with
motorists spending several hours before they could be allowed in.
Doctors and other essential services were also stuck at
roadblocks.


"This is part of the operations to prevent Tigers getting into
the city," a police official said.


Sixteen people were detained for questioning after the
authorities searched nearly 10,000 vehicles and checked identity
papers of 16,500 people, police said.


The extraordinary security measures came as Sri Lankans prepared
to watch their team play Australia in the finals of cricket World
Cup in Barbados later on Saturday.


The moves followed heightened security in the capital after
defence ministry reports that Tamil Tiger guerrillas had entered
the air space of the island's only international airport
overnight on Thursday.


The sky over the Katunayake international airport near Colombo --
where government war planes share a runway with civilian jets --
was lit up with anti- aircraft gunfire in response to the
incursion by a "suspicious aircraft."


Electricity to the capital was switched off so potential targets
would not be illuminated.


The rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), who have been
fighting the government for 35 years and run a mini-state in the
north of the island, bombed the Katunayake air base a month ago
in their first ever air strike.


The separatists staged a second air raid on the Palaly military
complex in the north early on Tuesday.


The following day the Tigers held their fire while Sri Lanka beat
New Zealand to qualify for Saturday's finals.


However, security forces in the northern and eastern regions were
told to step up their alert on Saturday amid fears the Tigers
could strike later in the day while attention was riveted on the
cricket telecast, police said.


Sri Lanka's state-run Rupavahini television station said more
than 14 million people out of the 19.5 million population were
expected to watch the live broadcast of the finals.


"Senior officers in the operational areas have been told to
maintain maximum alert today (Saturday)," a police spokesman here
said. "They must ensure that the men under them do not abandon
their posts to go and watch cricket."


The tightened security came as security forces shot dead two
suspected Tamil Tiger rebels across a defence line on Friday in
the island's north, the defence ministry said.


The guerrillas were travelling in a vehicle when troops opened
fire at them, it said. The attack came after the Tigers shot dead
three naval troops in the northeast of the island earlier on
Friday.


More than 60,000 people have been killed in Sri Lanka's long-
running Tamil separatist conflict.


A 2002 Norwegian-brokered truce is in shreds with more than 4,000
people killed in a new wave of fighting since December 2005.

