

A top Cuban official on Saturday would not confirm or deny that
President Fidel Castro might attend annual May Day events in
Cuba, in what would be the convalescing communist leader's first
public appearance in nine months.


Economy Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez told international
journalists "we all would like for his swift recovery to be even
faster and for him to be with us; that recovery is coming along
well, but it is going to take the time that necessary medical
steps take, and we are going to have to respect whatever is
necessary to do in that case."


"People know that he has to do what he has to do, and the best
thing he can do is to take care of himself and recover more
quickly," Rodriguez added.


"Everyone knows Fidel is there taking part in the country's key
decisions ... but if it is possible, he'll be there, and if it is
not, he won't."


Cuba's communist authorities are mobilizing


at least six million people to mark May Day on May 1, but none
has confirmed whether Fidel Castro -- who has not appeared in
public since he underwent major surgery nine months ago -- will
take part.


In July he turned over power temporarily to his brother Raul to
recover from the surgery, but no concrete details have emerged as
to the progress of his recovery.


In 48 years since rising to power, Castro, now 80, only has
missed May Day events twice, due to travel outside the country in
1959 and 1963.


International journalists have been arriving in Havana hoping to
cover Castro's return to the public eye after the surgery that
took him away from Cuba's helm for the first time in almost five
decades. Prior to his illness, most Cubans had never known
another leader.


Earlier this week a fitter, less gaunt Castro was seen in
official photos after he met with a top Chinese official, in a
sign he unofficially is back at work on some of his customary
official duties.


That fuelled speculation among many Cubans that he might be on
hand at the May Day parade in Havana.


But this weekend Castro was missing a summi in Venezuela of his
closest allies and partners in the Bolivarian Alternative for the
Americas (ALBA), a socialist effort to rival US-led plans for
free trade in the Americas. Cuba will be represented by Vice
President Carlos Lage.

