

Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed said on Saturday that
Islamist forces in Mogadishu had been defeated and appealed to
residents fleeing the recent flare- up in violence to return
home.


"The government forces with the support of the Ethiopian troops
have completed the operations against the terrorist groups in
Mogadishu and they have accomplished their mission," Yusuf told a
press conference at the presidential palace.


"We call on the people who fled their houses to get back and
maintain their normal life," Yusuf said.


Ethiopian forces have been battling Islamist fighters and clan
militia since the beginning of the year when they backed Somali
government soldiers to oust an Islamist movement from the capital
and other areas in the Horn of Africa nation they controlled.


But remnant Islamists put up stiff resistance, prompting an
upsurge in violence which killed hundreds of civilians and
prompted an estimated 400,000 people -- according to the United
Nations -- to flee.


The fighting was some of the heaviest since the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into a bloody power struggle
in a country that has defied repeated attempts to restore
stability.


Hundreds of displaced residents trooped back to Mogadishu
Saturday to inspect their houses, many of which were destroyed by
heavy shelling in nine days of fighting that subsided Thursday
when the joint Ethiopia-Somali forces seized insurgents
strongholds in northern Mogadishu.


"I visited my house this morning and saw Ethiopian soldiers
inside. Some of them were sleeping and others sitting on my
veranda," said Muhubo Ali Diriye, a resident of Mogadishu's
northern Towfiq district.


"They allowed me to get in the rooms and check how things are,"
she told AFP.


An elder in Towfiq, Sheikh Hassan Dubad said the fighting had
been the worst he had ever seen.


"The worst shelling took place in our neighbourhood and we don't
know who we can ask to give us compensation," said Hassan, whose
house was destroyed by fire.


"I saw my house for the first time in nine days, but I could not
tell whether it was my house because it was demolished by
artillery shells," said Yusuf Gure Yare, another resident.


Government forces patrolled the streets and searched residents
who were returning, an AFP correspondent and residents said.


"The Ethiopian forces are checking anybody walking on the street,
but we can reach our houses today for the first time and no one
is stopping us," said Wiliyo Ali Ga'al, a mother of two.

