

The ACT Brumbies kept their Super 14 rugby semi-final hopes alive
when they upset defending champions the Canterbury Crusaders 15-6
in a torrid clash here Saturday.


In a match where no tries were scored, ACT flyhalf Stephen
Larkham kicked a drop goal with two minutes remaining to make the
game safe for the Brumbies.


Brumbies stalwarts Larkham, George Gregan and Jeremy Paul were
making their last appearances in Canberra before moving to Europe
at the end of the World Cup and the ACT used the emotion of the
occasion to overpower the competition leaders.


"There was a bit of emotion out there ... but everyone was up for
it -- everyone was really focused," Gregan said.


"Everyone used that momentum and the energy from the crowd to get
us home."


Before kick-off a grandstand at Canberra Stadium was named after
Gregan and Larkham, and the two veterans showed why they are
considered among the greatest players in Australian rugby
history.


They controlled the match and totally outplayed counterparts
Kevin Senio and Daniel Carter.


After going behind early, the Brumbies came back to lead 9-3 at
halftime and they kept the advantage for the remainder of the
match.


The two teams spent the first half sizing each other up like two
heavyweight champions, with neither prepared to give an inch.


The wet conditions didn't help either side as a slippery ball and
a heavy ground led to a host of turnovers and dropped balls.


The visitors opened the scoring in the seventh minute when
flyhalf Daniel Carter kicked a straightforward penalty, which was
answered two minutes later by Stirling Mortlock.


The score stayed at 3-3 until the 28th minute when Crusaders
flanker Richie McCaw was shown the yellow card for a deliberate
knock-down.


Mortlock converted to make it 6-3 and that looked likely to be
the halftime score until McCaw, who had only been back on the
field for a minute, was penalised at the breakdown just on the
Brumbies' side of halfway.


Fullback Julian Huxley stepped up and banged it over from 53
metres to give the Brumbies a 9-3 lead at the break.


Carter pulled it back to 9-6 20 minutes into the second half, but
Mortlock restored the six-point advantage 10 minutes later.


The Crusaders threw everything at the Brumbies over the final 10
minutes and the match could have gone either way.


But with two minutes left on the clock and with the ACT deep in
attack, Larkham calmly slotted a drop goal to put the Brumbies
out by nine and make the game safe.


The Brumbies now travel to Dunedin to take on the Highlanders,
where they must win and then hope for other results to go their
way to make the semi-finals.

