

India will make a pitch for the 2020 Olympics after deciding not
to bid for the 2016 Games, a top sports official said on
Saturday.


"We will start our (bid) preparations as soon as the 2010
Commonwealth Games (being hosted by New Delhi) are over," Indian
Olympic Association (IOA) president Suresh Kalmadi said at a news
conference.


"New Delhi will bid for the 2020 Olympic Games," Kalmadi told
reporters in the presence of International Olympic Committee
president Jacques Rogge, who was here to inaugurate an Olympic
facility.


India dropped plans to bid for the 2016 Olympics after failing to
secure the 2014 Asian Games last week.


"We thought of bidding for the 2016 Olympics because we already
have the Commonwealth Games in 2010 and were planning to host the
2014 Asian Games," Kalmadi said after the defeat.


"So by 2016 we could have had an Olympics for free, since by then
infrastructure would have been in place," he said.


New Delhi lost out to the South Korean port city of Incheon in
the race for the 2014 Asian Games last week, a defeat Kalmadi
blamed on Indian Sports Minister Mani Shankar Aiyar.


Aiyar had said a day before the vote that running major sports
events did not benefit ordinary people.


Kalmadi said the remarks cost India the games, although New
Delhi's pollution and congested roads were reported to have
played a big part.


IOC president Rogge supported the Indian bid for the 2020 Olympic
Games, which has received the backing of the Indian government,
saying the nation of 1.1 billion people would become a "sporting
tiger" by then.


"I am impressed to see your prime minister so committed to
sports. New Delhi should bid for the 2020 Games," Rogge said.


"We have a lot of expectations from India and we in the IOC think
that India have great potential in sports.


"You have a young population of 70 percent under 25 (and) good
infrastructure ..."


The IOC chief also promised to support India "in its training,
expertise and financial resources."


Rogge, on his first visit to India since 1986, said it was
imperative for a bid to have the "best possible collaboration"
between the government and all other concerned parties.


"It is for the prestige of organisation that all governments try
to do their best. Sport is a force for good in every country," he
said.


Rogge's previous visit was in connection with India's bid for the
1992 Games which was later withdrawn by the Indian Olympic
Association after the government cancelled its support.


The games were eventually hosted by Barcelona.


Asked about India's chances of winning the 2020 games, Rogge
said: "It is a different and very tough competition...


"The bid is always awarded seven years in advance. So for 2020
the bid will be awarded in 2013. You have six years to prepare an
impeccable bid. You have to unite for it," he said.

