

Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi on Saturday accused rebels in
Sudan's war-ravaged western region of Darfur of seeking to
internationalise the conflict.


"There are rebel groups in Darfur which are trying to involve the
world in this issue," he said at an international conference on
Darfur held in Sirte, 500 kilometres (310 miles) east of the
Libyan capital.


"It is not in the interests of the international community to
intervene in an affair in which one of the parties does not want
a solution," the Libyan leader said.


He also said there were "other issues more grave than Darfur" and
regretted they did not attract similar attention, without naming
them.


But the United Nations envoy to Sudan, Jan Eliasson, said the
Darfur problems was "not just dangerous for Sudan, but also for
the region and the whole world.


"This conference could be a chance to accelerate a solution to
this problem and reinforce peace in the region," he said,
according to an official translation in Arabic of his remarks.


Earlier Libya's deputy foreign minister said the conference was
taking place without the participation of rebel groups.


"This important conference is being held in the absence of the
Sudanese opposition, for whom another conference will be held
soon in Tripoli," Ali Abdel Salam Triki told reporters.


He did not specify when the second meeting would be held but said
its delegates would discuss the results of Saturday's gathering
in Sirte.


US President George W. Bush's special envoy for Darfur, Andrew
Natsios, was in Sirte, as were the British foreign office's
official in charge of Sudan Christopher Prentice and Henri de
Coignac from France's foreign ministry.


The foreign ministers of Chad, Egypt and Sudan -- Ahmat Allami,
Ahmed Abul Gheit and Lam Akol respectively -- were also
attending, as well as the African Union special representative
for Sudan, Salim Ahmed Salim.


Earlier this month, Khartoum accepted the second phase of a
United Nations plan to bring stability to Darfur.


It would add 3,000 UN troops -- mostly military and police staff
-- to provide logistical, communications and air support to the
current undermanned African Union (AU) force.


The international community is pressing Sudan to accept a hybrid
peacekeeping force of UN and AU forces to stem violence that has
steadily escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003.


At least 200,000 people have been killed in Darfur and more than
two million driven from their homes, according to the United
Nations. Khartoum disputes those figures, but some sources say
the death toll is much higher.

