

Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki told a delegation of
visiting US lawmakers on Saturday that foreign powers should not
try to influence the Iraqi political process.


He also resisted calls for his Shiite-led government to
rehabilitate former members of ousted Sunni dictator Saddam
Hussein's regime.


Maliki met a group of US congressmen shortly after their chamber
voted for a law calling for a timetable for American troop
withdrawal from Iraq.


"During his meeting with members of the US Congress headed by
Democratic Senator Ben Nelson, Maliki said allowing influence
over our affairs to this state or that is a red line that we will
not cross," his office announced.


On Thursday, the US Senate passed a law that would tie 124
billion dollars in war funds to a commitment to begin withdrawing
American forces by October and completing the pull-out on March
31, 2008.


Many US lawmakers have criticised Maliki's government for failing
to make progress towards a number of so-called benchmarks --
political reforms which they feel will help to hasten the end of
Iraq's sectarian conflict.


But President George W. Bush has vowed to veto any bill which
ties the hands of military commanders, while Iraq's Shiite
premier insists that Iraq's problems are caused by hardline
factions within his Sunni foes.


"Maliki said there are two dangers threatening Iraq, namely Al-
Qaeda and the Saddamists, whom he said are leading the arbitrary
killings aganist all Iraqis with their differing sects and
affiliations," the statement said.


Maliki's statement appeared to warn against calls from US policy-
makers for a review of the policy of de-Baathification, under
which former members of Saddam's ruling party are barred from
public life.


"He said allowing these people access to authority threatens
national unity rather than calming the situation as some
believe," it said, adding that such a move would hurt Iraqis who
"did not resort to crimes and violence."


According to the website of Senator Nelson, a Nebraska Democrat,
he was in Iraq with Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama and two
members of the House of Representatives, Lee Terry of Nebraska
and Devin Nunes of California.

