

Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson promised Bolton
manager Sam Allardyce 'a kiss and a hug' as his side took a huge
step towards securing the Premiership title.


United raced five points clear at the summit with three games
left after a stunning 4-2 comeback victory over Everton while
Chelsea were being held to a 2-2 draw at Stamford Bridge by
Bolton.


"Sam will be getting a hug and a kiss, maybe two kisses!" said a
jubilant Ferguson.


Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho came close to acknowledging that the
title race is over.


"I'm sad," the Portuguese coach said. "It is almost in Manchester
United's hands."


Despite that gloomy assessment of the situation, Mourinho
insisted his team would battle to the end.


"The title race is almost over but almost is a big word," he
said. "It is not over because mathematically there is a chance,"
said Mourinho.


"When the chance is there, we have to believe. But it is almost
lost, almost. They have to lose two games and we have to win all
three. They are very close.


"It was an emotional game, although it did not have much quality.


"There was maybe a bit too much emotion on our part, but there
was a lot of heart.


"We put them under pressure and we were close to getting a third
goal.


"I feel sad but I have a big game on Tuesday night and that's a
good thing in this situation. We have no time to be sad."


Ferguson warned his side against taking too much for granted.


"This result is very significant, we are now away to Manchester
City next Saturday lunchtime, having been to AC Milan for the
Champions League semi-final, and we know what that can do to
players. It is very difficult.


"Then we have Chelsea at Stamford Bridge. So we cannot count our
chickens yet, but I do think the marvellous attitude of our
players and the spirit they show is going to keep helping us.


"I feel the momentum is back with us, particularly with Chelsea
drawing. We have a five-point lead and superior goal difference,
(and that) gives us a marvellous chance with three games left.


"But the most important thing is that my lads are having a real
go. If you do that, and with the finishers we have in our side,
we are always likely to score. That is a smashing attitude to
have at this stage of the season."


Ferguson admitted he had been bemused by the way Saturday's match
had evolved, with Alan Stubbs and Manuel Fernandes putting
Everton two goals up.


"With what was going on elsewhere our lead at the top of the
table at one stage was down to goal difference, and Everton were
leading with two great strikes.


"But in football that can happen. Their first one was a bit
fortunate to take a deflection past Edwin van der Sar, and their
second was an incredible strike.


"At that point we were toying with bringing on Ronaldo, he was
carrying an injury. We felt that if we did score we would then
bring him on.


"And we got the break when the young keeper dropped the ball, and
John O'Shea put it away. At that point I felt we had a chance.


"Bringing on Ronaldo, their focus would be on him. But there
would be Giggs, Scholes, Carrick, Rooney all to worry about. I
felt it was meant to happen."


Everton manager David Moyes pointed the finger of blame at young
keeper Turner for a defeat which damages his side's hopes of
qualifying for the Uefa Cup.


"We are disappointed," added Moyes.


"We gave United a great opportunity to get back in the game. It
gave them a massive lift.


"It was a big turning point in the game.


"For me it was poor all round from our point of view as far as
the goals concerned.


"I don't think they would have got back in had that mistake not
happened."

