

In another reminder of the gulf that divides their warring
communities, Iraqis remembered Saddam Hussein's era on Saturday
at two starkly different ceremonies.


One honoured the memory of the former dictator, another laid more
of his victims to rest.


In the small northern village of Awja, where Saddam was buried
after his execution in December, a crowd of 200 Sunni Iraqis,
mostly young children, laid a wreath on his tomb in honour of his
birthday.


Meanwhile, in central Iraq's Shiite holy city of Karbala, about
40 officials and clerics gathered to rebury the remains of 61
victims of Saddam's brutal crackdown of the Shiite rebellion that
followed the 1991 Gulf War.


Tens of thousands of Shiites -- rebels and innocent civilians
alike -- were slaughtered by Saddam's forces and dumped in mass
graves across Iraq.


Since the March 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq, officials have been
gradually exhuming the victims and laying them to rest in massive
cemetries.


Despite the passions that memories of Iraq's former era once
aroused, both ceremonies were sparsely attended, indicating
perhaps that the daily bloodshed in the country now overshadows
the contested historical legacy.


In Awja, the children laid candles at the grave but left them
unlit to signify what one organiser called "the darkness of the
occupation".


"The children of Salaheddin want to celebrate the birthday of the
martyr Saddam Hussein near his tomb. They regard him as their
father," said Fatin Abdul Qadir, the head of a children's
organisation in the province.


Many of the children, however, could not have been more than
three or four when Saddam was ousted in the invasion.


In Karbala, Shiites gathered to commemorate their own "martyrs".


"Today we are burying the remains of 61 martyrs that the former
regime buried in a mass grave in the Razaza area in 1991 during
the popular uprising," said Emad Muhammed Hussein, one of the
organizers of the event.


"We obtained the remains from the Imam Ali base near Nasiriyah
after US forces examined them and used them as evidence against
the former regime."


Most Iraqis rejoiced when Saddam was overthrown in the second US-
led invasion of their country, but many members of his tribe and
some nostalgic members of his ruling Baath Party continue to
honour his name.


The bloody chaos that has descended on Iraq in the wake of the
invasion and the controversial way in which Saddam was executed
by the new Shiite-led regime have also hardened support for him
in some Sunni communities.


Under local pressure, Ali al-Nida, the chief of the Baijat tribe
to which Saddam belonged, attended the Awja ceremony after
initially urging his people to keep the celebrations small or
even to postpone them.


"I told them that the security situation is not suitable. They
must postpone these celebrations until the circumstances improve
and the political reality in Iraq is changed," Nida told AFP.


"Only then can they celebrate the occasion which Iraqis used to
respect before the occupation began on April 9, 2003," he said,
referring to the date when US marines pulled down a tall bronze
statue of Saddam in Baghdad.

