

Zimbabwe has compensated 800 white farmers for property seized
during controversial land reforms launched by President Robert
Mugabe's government, a state daily reported Saturday.


"The government has compensated 800 white former commercial
farmers who had their properties acquired for resettlement since
2000," the state-run Herald said.


The newspaper reported the Minister of State for Land and
Resettlement Flora Buka as saying billions of dollars were paid
out to dispossesed farmers in compensation.


The Commercial Farmers' Unions the majority of whose members were
thrown off their farms during the land reforms could not be
reached for comment.


In the past the union has been sceptical about the government's
capacity to compensate dispossesed farmers for seized equipment
and developments on their properties when it was saddled with a
financial crunch.


The Herald quoted Buka as saying: "There is room for negotiation
when we pay compensation and farmers are taking up what we are
offering.


"As government we are committed to paying for the infrastructure
which was owned by the white farmers."


Zimbabwe launched its controversial and often violent land
reforms seven years ago, seizing at least 4,000 properties
formerly run by white farmers and pledging to redistribute them
to landless blacks.


Mugabe said the measure was aimed at rectifying historical wrongs
and imbalances favouring British colonial settlers and other
white farmers.


He turned a blind eye when bands of veterans of the country's
1970s liberation war led the farm seizures, often occupying them
after violent attacks.


The move led to a slide in agricultural production, once the
bedrock of the Zimbabwean economy, which is now labouring under
four-digit inflation and previously unheard of food shortages.


At least 500 white farmers still remain in Zimbabwe while many
others have emigrated to other countries in Africa such as
Zambia, Mozambique and Nigeria.


Last November the government invited more than 1,000 white
farmers to collect compensation for property seized during the
land reforms.

