

Malaysians went to the polls Saturday in a tiny but crucial state
by-election seen as a test for the political future of sacked
former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim.


Although not contesting, Anwar has thrown his weight behind the
opposition candidate in a bitter and gruelling campaign against
the powerful ruling national front coalition, or Barisan Nasional
(BN), led by Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.


The weekend poll is seen as a litmus test of popularity for both
sides ahead of a general election expected before 2009.


Polls opened amid tight security and light rain as voters lined
up at nine polling stations in the tiny semi-rural constituency
of Ijok, in central Selangor state.


Voting started at 8:00am (0000 GMT) and closed at 5:00 pm.


Election Commission secretary Kamaruzaman Mohamad Nor said a
total of 10,049 voters or 81.9 percent of the 12,272 eligible
voters had cast their ballots.


"This represents the highest number of voter turnout in the
history of this constituency," Kamaruzaman told reporters.


"The large turnout could be the realisation by the people for the
need to cast their votes and efforts by the two parties to
encourage voters to come out to vote," he said.


He dismissed opposition claims of phantom voters.


"There are no phantom voters," he said. "You have to follow our
(electoral) list. The confusion arised because they used another
electoral list," he added, referring to the commission's official
list of voters.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak, who is leading the ruling
coalition's campaign in Ijok, visited one polling station in a
last-minute pitch for votes.


"I am happy, it looks good. Early signs shows that it is
encouraging," a beaming Najib told AFP.


An ethnic Indian construction worker, E. Elango, 52, said he
backed the ruling coalition as it could bring development to the
sleepy town.


"It (the BN) can help the people with infrastructure development.
The opposition cannot bring any development," he said.


Annuar Musa, BN chief in eastern Kelantan state, who joined Najib
to canvass for votes, told AFP the Malay-majority areas of Ijok
traditionally supported the opposition.


"The previous national front candidate did not meet the
expectations of the voters," Annuar said, referring to former
state lawmaker K. Sivalingam, whose death earlier this month
precipitated the by-election.


The Malaysian Indian Congress, part of the BN coalition, is
fielding K. Parthiban, 38, against the opposition People's
Justice Party, or Keadilan, candidate Abdul Khalid Ibrahim, 61.


The BN defeated Keadilan by 1,649 votes in the state in the 2004
general election.


"Anwar is not a factor in this election. He can be in politics
but it's not a threat to the government," Annuar said.


As voting drew to a close, precautions were stepped up at a hall
where results were due to be announced with hundreds of police on
guard.


Some 200 heavily armed anti-riot police along with six others on
horses and two water cannon trucks have encircled the centre
where the winner will be announced.


Anwar campaigned for Keadilan, formally run by his wife, against
the BN, which has dominated Malaysian politics since independence
in 1957.


It marks Anwar's first major contribution to Malaysia's political
scene since his 1998 sacking by former prime minister Mahathir
Mohamad.


"If they (BN) give money, take it. But vote Keadilan," Anwar
challenged voters at a campaign speech late Friday, just outside
Ijok.


"The world is watching Ijok. We should create a shocking upset,"
he said.


"Will you vote Keadilan?" Anwar asked. The crowd of some 200
people stood up and replied "Yes."

