

Carlos Spencer's future was thrown into doubt on Saturday when
his English club Northampton were relegated from the Premiership
despite a 27-22 win over London Irish.


Another former All Black flyhalf, Andrew Mehrtens, meanwhile
ended his Harlequins career with a virtuoso 24-point display in
the London club's 49-0 romp against Sale.


On his 34th birthday, Mehrtens showed no signs of the knee and
hamstring problems which have limited him to only nine
appearances in his last season as he contributed a try, five
conversions, two long-range penalties and a drop goal.


Spencer has another year on his contract with the Saints but the
club may be willing to release him to cut their wage bill after
losing their lucrative top- flight status.


Northampton went down fighting, recovering from a 12-10 half-time
deficit to claim their first win on home soil since the turn of
the year with Bruce Reihana, Sean Lamont and Mark Robinson all
scoring tries.


But it was in vain as Worcester's 22-7 win over Saracens meant
they held on to 11th place in the table by a single point.


Worcester needed a win to guarantee their safety and they made
the perfect start when Tevita Taumoepeau powered over after seven
minutes, and when Drew Hickey also crossed they looked to be in
complete charge.


Saracens reduced the arrears through Dan Scarbrough, but Dale
Rasmussen's second-half score eased the tension.


At the other end of the table, Gloucester, Leicester, Bristol and
Saracens ended up in the top four slots and will contest the
play-offs which decide the champion.


Gloucester ran in four tries to win their west country derby with
Bristol and clinch top spot while Bristol, who led the standings
until mid-February, had to make do with third.


Gloucester will host Saracens in their play-off semi-final while
Bristol, who many predicted at the start of the season would be
relegated, will travel to runners-up Leicester, where they lost
43-15 just before Christmas.


Willie Walker, Mark Foster, Jake Boer and Andy Hazel crossed for
Gloucester in their 35-13 win on Saturday while David Lemi and
Brian Lima replied for Bristol.


Leicester grabbed four tries and fly-half Andy Goode marked his
100th Tigers appearance in the Premiership with an 18-point haul
as they beat Wasps 40-26.


Alesana Tuilagi, Danny Hipkiss and Lewis Moody crossed for
Leicester, who were also awarded a penalty try as they dealt a
psychological blow in the countdown to the European Cup final
between the sides on May 20.


James Haskell, Ayoola Erinle and Mark McMillan replied with tries
for Wasps.


Peter Short, David Bory and Shaun Berne scored the tries as Bath
ended the season with a 20-12 win at Newcastle, for whom Mathew
Tait and Andy Buist crossed.

