

Chelsea saw their hopes of retaining the Premiership title all
but snuffed out as they were held to a costly 2-2 draw by Bolton
on Saturday.


Kevin Davies' 53rd-minute equaliser, combined with Manchester
United's stirring victory at Everton, left Jose Mourinho's side
five points adrift of the league leaders with just three matches
remaining.


The west Londoners must now pin their hopes on a miracle turn-
around in the season's final weeks, but a resigned air had
settled over Stamford Bridge long before the final whistle blew.


Chelsea's hopes had been perked when Salomon Kalou's header and
Jussi Jaaskelainen's own goal had put them in front after Lubomir
Michalik's opener, but Davies' goal punctured their optimism and
put the champagne on ice in Manchester.


Chelsea have made light of their heavy work-load this season, but
with the second leg of their Champions League semi-final looming
large on Tuesday, Mourinho deemed this a game too far for a
clutch of his star names.


The Portuguese made six changes to the team which had brushed
aside Liverpool three days earlier, dropping Didier Drogba, Frank
Lampard and Joe Cole to the bench and omitting Ashley Cole, Paolo
Ferreira and Claude Makelele entirely.


It was a gamble, albeit a calculated one. Chelsea's run-in is
daunting and this looked the least treacherous of the champions'
remaining fixtures.


But there was a price to pay. They appeared confused and
indecisive in the opening stages, content on smashing hopeful
punts towards the isolated Andriy Shevchenko.


Chelsea displayed an unusual laxness in defending Andranik
Teymourian's 18th- minute free-kick, which picked out the
unmarked Abdoulaye Meite. The Ivory Coast defender's downward
header was blocked by Kalou and Michalik thumped in the loose
ball.


But Mourinho's side have a hardy constitution and falling behind
provided a peculiar pick-me-up. Within three minutes, Wayne
Bridge had torn forward and delivered an enticing inswinging
cross which Kalou, nipping in front of Michalik, nodded into the
far corner.


Suddenly, Chelsea found their rhythm. Jaaskelainen was forced
into an impressive save from Shevchenko but Chelsea were not to
be denied. In the 33rd minute, Lampard - on for the injured
Ricardo Carvalho - drifted over a corner which Kalou met with a
crashing header.


Idan Tal successfully deflected it onto the underside of the
crossbar, but the dropping ball struck Jaaskelainen's knee and
rolled in.


Mourinho was still not satisfied. He unleashed Drogba at the
interval but if he hoped the move would enable his side to
tighten their grip on the game, he was mistaken.


Eight minutes after the re-start, Bolton were level again, in
almost identical circumstances to their opener, the inexplicably
unmarked Davies nodding in Tal's free-kick.


By now, Chelsea had two enemies: Bolton, and the tension
smothering Stamford Bridge. The home crowd's mood was dictated as
much by events at Goodison Park as their own ground: Everton's
second goal provoked another huge roar; United's first prompted
quiet mutterings of unease; their equaliser audible groans.


And, all the while, Chelsea laboured. Geremi's fizzing low free-
kick just evaded the onrushing Drogba and Michael Essien, and
Kalou blazed over when well placed, but Bolton were largely
comfortable.


As the seconds ticked away, Meite was lucky not to be punished
for a deliberate handball as Drogba attempted a clever turn, but
for all Mourinho's fevered reaction on the sidelines, the
defender was outside the penalty area.


Chelsea were out of ideas, out of time and out of luck, with news
of United's winning goal casting a deathly pall over Stamford
Bridge. There is surely no way back now.

