

Manchester United took a huge step towards clinching the title by
defeating Everton 4-2 after a stunning second half fightback at
Goodison Park on Saturday.


Goals either side of half time by veteran defender Alan Stubbs
and Portuguese midfielder Manuel Fernandes appeared to have left
Sir Alex Ferguson's hopes of a ninth Premiership title in the
balance.


But an horrendous error by young keeper Iain Turner proved the
turning point as United netted four times in the final half an
hour to go five points clear of Chelsea, who could only draw
against Bolton, with three games remaining.


John O'Shea reduced the deficit before Everton captain Phil
Neville, a former United player, scored an own goal while trying
to clear a header by substitute Cristiano Ronaldo.


England striker Wayne Rooney, who launched his career at Everton
before a 30 million pounds move to Old Trafford, put United ahead
for the first time in the 79th minute before substitute Chris
Eagles completed a sensational victory in stoppage time.


United face a tricky derby with Manchester City next weekend
before travelling to Stamford Bridge to take on Chelsea at
Stamford Bridge on May 9.


But the manner of this victory suggests that Ferguson's outfit
have one hand on their first title since 2003.


Yet they looked anything but champions in the waiting during
after a dreadful first half performance.


Everton overcame their injury problems to produce a first half
performance full of commitment and grit. What they lacked in
experience they made up with enthusiasm. In the absence of
12-goal leading scorer Andy Johnson, the Merseyside club were
forced to start with 18-year-old James Vaughan.


The teenager caused the United defence problems with his energy
and pace while Mikel Arteta was once again an influential
midfield presence.


After an emotional and sustained round of applause in memory of
former Everton and England World Cup winner Alan Ball, who died
earlier in the week, it was Arteta's corner which led to Joleon
Lescott heading against the United bar in the third minute.


Yet the visitors did not heed the warning and found themselves
behind after failing to deal with another set-piece.


Stubbs is not renowned for scoring goals but he beat Edwin van
der Sar from 30-yards with the aid of a Michael Carrick
deflection after a free kick had been awarded for Patrice Evra's
clumsy challenge on Arteta.


Without Ronaldo, who Ferguson rested on the bench because the
United boss said he was carrying a light injury, struggled to
open up the Everton defence to the extent where Turner enjoyed a
troublefree life for long periods.


Turner was making only his third start at this level as Everton's
first-choice keeper Tim Howard, who is still officially on loan
from United, was ineligible due to a contractual agreement.


Turner was not required to make a save until the 20th minute,
when the Scottish stopper denied Rooney with one hand.


United looked devoid of ideas and their afternoon went from bad
to worse when Fernandes doubled Everton's lead in the 50th minute
with a ferocious strike from the edge of the area after more good
work by Arteta.


Everton were coasting but a schoolboy error by Turner allowed
United an unexpected lifeline when he dropped a corner by Ryan
Giggs and O'Shea made no mistake from close range in the 61st
minute.


Suddenly United came to life and six minutes later they drew
level after Neville screwed the ball into his own net while
attempting a clearance following a header Ronaldo, who started on
the bench after suffering a minor heel injury in training on the
eve of the match.


Everton collapsed and Rooney made it 3-2 with 11 minutes to play
after darting past Tony Hibbert, before Eagles completed a
memorable victory in the dying seconds following a superb pass by
man-of-the-match Rooney.

