

Defending champions Sweden battled back from a goal down to make
a winning start to the world championships, thrashing 7-1 Italy
in the preliminary Group A showdown here on Saturday.


Forward Giorgio de Bettin surprisingly lifted Italy 1-0 up
scoring an opening goal 3:07 into the match on powerplay.


Sweden poured in attack and levelled through forward Johan
Davidsson at 15:51, while Fredrik Emvall lifted Sweden 2-1 up
with 2:41 remaining before the first intermission also on
powerplay.


Tony Martensson and Jonathan Hedstrom added one apiece in the
second period, while Emvall and Davidsson both scored their
second goals of the match to make it 6-1 for Sweden before the
second break.


Per Hallberg finalised the scoring with 8:10 remaining to play.


In the opening period of the other Group A match earlier on
Saturday Switzerland and Latvia presented a sample of the dullest
hockey at the tournament so far leaving the scoreline untouched.


Forward Lauris Darzins put Latvia into the lead 8:25 into the
second period sending the puck home through the traffic from
teammate Armands Berzins' pass from behind the goal line.


Switzerland replied positively and began peppering Latvia's
goalie Sergejs Naumovs with shots and seized the lead before the
second break through Adrian Wichser and Sandy Jeanin, who scored
one apiece within three minutes.


In the third period the Swiss team were sitting on their
advantage stifling Latvia's attacking efforts and kept it through
to record their first win 2-1 at the event.


In the Group C Canada narrowly avoided a points loss in the
campaign-opening match.


The 2002 Olympic champions were trailing 1-0 against Germany at
the Mytishchi ice palace after Christoph Ullmann netted the
opener halfway into the first period.


Canada looked slightly rusty but managed to pull the scores level
before the first intermission through St Louis Blues' striker
Jamal Mayers, who equalised at 17:39.


In the second period Canada moved up a gear clinching a 2-1 lead
just 53sec after the restart through Carolina Hurricanes forward
Eric Staal.


However, Germany levelled just 30 sec later due to a monumental
gaffe from Edmonton Oilers goaltender Dwayne Roloson, who allowed
Germany's rear guard Robert Dietrich to fire in from the center
of the ice rink.


But Canada managed to scrap a victory as Mayers netted his second
goal of the match at 51:42 into unguarded net dashing Germany's
hopes for a draw.


Meanwhile, the 2002 world champions Slovakia grabbed the lead in
the Group C with a confident 3-0 win over Norway, while thier
goalie Jaroslav Halak produced 24 saves to pick a shutout.


Forward Marek Uram and Boston Bruins' blueliner Zdeno Chara were
on target in the first period giving Slovakia a comfortable 2-0
lead.


Branko Radivojevic netted Slovakia's third with 2:21 remaining
before the second interval on powerplay to secure his side's win.

