

The head of the US foreign aid agency resigned after being
contacted by a major television network investigating an alleged
Washington "DC Madam" prostitution operation.


The US State Department announced Friday that Randall Tobias, the
head of the US Agency for International Development (USAID), had
resigned for personal reasons.


Tobias said "that he must step down" from his post "effective
immediately," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a
statement Friday.


"He is returning to private life for personal reasons," McCormack
said.


But ABC News reported that Tobias had submitted his resignation
after being contacted by the network, which obtained the
telephone records of so-called "DC Madam" Deborah Jeane Palfrey,
who is facing charges of running a prostitution service.


"We are sad and disappointed by this news. Randy was an extremely
effective leader in the fight against HIV/Aids in places like
Africa, and his work in development at USAID. We wish him and his
family well," said Tony Fratto, a White House spokesman traveling
with President George W. Bush in Florida.


Tobias took over USAID, the government agency in charge of
sending humanitarian aid in disaster situations around the world,
14 months ago, replacing Andrew Natsios.


His tenure was strongly criticized in a hearing in the US House
of Representatives in March, especially by Democrat Tom Lantos,
who was angered by USAID's role in the West Bank and Gaza, Russia
and India.


Before he took the USAID post, Tobias was responsible for
coordinating the US government's international HIV/AIDS
assistance efforts.


Prior to that Tobias served as chairman, president and chief
executive of the pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly and Company. He
also served as chairman of Duke University's board of trustees
from 1997-2000.


Palfrey has been charged with operating a prostitution service
for 13 years until her retirement in 2006.


But she denies doing anything illegal.


"The business, Pamela Martin and Associates, functioned as a
high-end adult fantasy firm which offered legal sexual and erotic
services across the spectrum of adult sexual behavior and did so
without incident during its 13 year tenure," she writes on her
website.

