

A United Nations team investigating the readiness of Kosovo to
become the world's newest state said Saturday it had completed a
worthwhile mission in the Serbian province but gave no clues as
to its findings.


"We are now better equipped to look at the picture as a whole.
The mission has made a difference," the man leading the 15-strong
delegation, Johan Verbeke, said as he was about to fly out of the
Kosovo capital Pristina.


"Of course, at this stage we are not to draw conclusions.
Conclusions are not to be done here," the Belgian diplomat said.


Kosovo, a southern Serbian province, has been under United
Nations administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing helped
to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal crackdown
against ethnic Albanians.


Its future status is expected to finally be determined in the
coming weeks as the UN Security Council begins a debate on UN
special envoy Martti Ahtisaari's plan to hand increasingly
impatient ethnic Albanians their wish for statehood.


The UN investigating team was on its way to Vienna to hold talks
with Ahtisaari, before next month's crucial debate.


"At this stage what is on the table is the Ahtisaari plan as it
was brought to the Security Council by the Secretary General Ban
Ki-moon.


"We will start looking at what is on the table and through the
deliberation we will see where it will bring us," Verbeke said.


The Ahtisaari plan, drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina, would grant Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, including its own
constitution, flag and anthem.


The Finnish diplomat's blueprint, which must be approved by the
Security Council, has been backed by the United States, European
Union, and leaders of ethnic Albanians who comprise around 90
percent of Kosovo's two million people.


However Serbia, which sees the province as its historic heartland
and has won support from veto-wielding Council member Russia, has
rejected his proposal as a violation of its territorial
integrity.

