

The maiden Pine Valley Beijing Open was set for a thrilling
finish with four players tied for the lead after Saturday's third
round on Saturday.


India's Gaurav Ghei, Adam Blyth and Scott Strange of Australia
and Thai rookie Panuwat Muenlek were all on 11-under-par 205,
with American star John Daly five shots back from the leaders.


Strange's 68 was helped along by a hole-in-one on the par-three
12th. Ghei also fired a 68 while Panuwat and Blyth scored five-
under-par 67s.


"The 12th hole was great. I struck it solid and the ball then
rolled into the hole. I've hit the ball close and given myself
chances but I've not made too many putts though," said Strange,
who is eyeing his third win on the Asian Tour.


Panuwat, who only turned pro last year, said he hoped he would be
able to relax in the tense final round.


"I want to relax tomorrow but I know I'll be a little bit
nervous. My aim is to have another good round and concentrate on
my game. It's definitely great to be on top here among some of
the top players in Asia and I love the experience," said Panuwat.


Blyth, who racked up seven birdies against two bogeys, was hoping
experience would steer him to a breakthrough win. The Australian
finished in the top-20 at last week's BMW Asian Open and had a
top-10 finish last month.


"The last few weeks have been a learning experience. Right now, I
hope to enjoy it and relax a little more in comparison to the
previous times I was in a similar position as I was a bit nervous
before," said Blyth.


Daly, a double major winner who missed the cut at last week's BMW
Asian Open, was even-par for the day in tied 10th place for a 210
total.


He said he would try to keep his head to make up the lost ground.


"I wasn't happy with my round. I am quite far back but I will try
to stay patient heading into the final round," said Daly.


Anthony Kang had two eagles in his 65 to reach lone fifth
position. Thailand's Thaworn Wiratchant carded 67 to finish the
day two shots off the leaders.


Backed by the local fans, China's Liang Wen-chong rose to seventh
place after his second straight 69 for a 208 total.

