

VfB Stuttgart midfielder Roberto Hilbert took his side up to
second in the Bundesliga table as his second-half strike sealed a
1-0 win at bottom-side Borussia Moenchengladbach on Saturday.


Hilbert's 53rd minute goal was enough to give his side the three
points at 'Gladbach as Stuttgart took second place from Werder
Bremen, who play on Sunday.


Stuttgart's win means Bayern Munich are now virtually sure to
miss out on a Champions League place next season after they lost
2-1 at home to Hamburg.


Bayern's Peruvian Claudio Pizarro gave the home side the lead
after 35 minutes, but Hamburg's Dutch midfielder Rafael van der
Vaart, who is being courted by Bayern, cancelled out the
advantage with a 71st minute goal.


And Hamburg's Peruvian international Jose Paolo Guerrero grabbed
the 76th-minute winner.


The defeat leaves Bayern in fourth, seven points behind third-
placed Bremen with three games left.


Hertha Berlin trounced hosts Alemannia Aachen 4-0 to go seventh
in the league as Brazilian midfielder Gilberto opened the scoring
with a goal after just seven minutes.


Berlin striker Christian Gimenez grabbed a second three minutes
after the break to make it 2-0, before Marko Pantelic and
Yildiray Basturk grabbed two late goals.


VfL Wolfsburg drew 1-1 at Nuremberg after Polish midfielder Jacek
Krzynowek slotted home a left-footed shot after a 40-metre run on
18 minutes for the guests.


But the home side were back level just five minutes later when
defender Andreas Wolf headed them on level terms.


Midtable Hanover had Dutch midfielder Arnold Jan Bruggink's
right-footed shot for their opening goal in their 2-1 win at
second-from-bottom Mainz 05.


And Hanover's Bulgarian midfielder Chavdar Yankov extended their
lead to 2-0 with a right-footed shot from a 50th minute corner
before Mainz's Egyptian international Mohamed Zidan grabbed a
late consolation goal.


And Thomas Doll's Borussia Dortmund moved away from the
relegation dog-fight after Swiss international Alexander Frei
gave them a 2-0 win at home to Eintracht Frankfurt with two well-
struck free-kicks either side of half-time.


Third-placed Werder Bremen now have a golden opportunity to go
top on Sunday when they travel to relegation-threatened Arminia
Bielefeld after leaders Schalke 04 lost 2-1 at VfL Bochum on
Friday.


German international striker Kevin Kuranyi gave Schalke the
perfect start with a headed goal on eight minutes, but the guests
then squandered their hard fought lead.


Bosnian midfielder Zvjezdan Misimovic equalised with a header for
his side on 33 minutes, before the Bundesliga's top-scorer scored
his 19th goal of the season, just before half-time to give Bochum
the win.


Schalke 04 coach Mirko Slomka said his side now expect to lose
their place at the top of the Bundesliga as a result of the
defeat, but will keep on fighting.


"We had two quite clear penalties turned down by the referee,"
said Slomka.


"It is sad that the game was decided in such a way, but we also
had enough chances to win the game.


"We lost far too much possession in the midfield and we must
ssume we won't be league leaders after the weekend."


Mid-table Energie Cottbus are at home to Bayer Leverkusen on
Sunday.

