

Birmingham are on the verge of returning to the Premiership after
a 2-0 win over Sheffield Wednesday, but once mighty English
footballing giants and 1975 European Cup finalists Leeds United
look certain to be relegated following their 1-1 draw with
Ipswich.


Steve Bruce's table-toppers, who were relegated last season, are
five points clear of third-placed Derby and will be promoted if
the Rams fail to win at Crystal Palace on Sunday.


Sunderland, in second place, will also go up on Sunday if Derby
lose, but a point for Billy Davies's men would delay their
celebrations.


Birmingham were down to 10 men for the final half an hour after
Fabrice Muamba was sent off for two bookings, but they still
managed to steal the points thanks to Cameron Jerome and
Sebastian Larsson.


Jerome broke the deadlock in the 74th minute with a close range
effort after Chris Adamson parried Radhi Jaidi's header. Larsson
sealed a win that sent St Andrews wild with six minutes to go as
he drove in a superb strike.


If Derby do beat Palace, the Blues will need to draw their last
match at Preston to clinch automatic promotion.


While there was euphoria at Birmingham there was only despair at
Elland Road as Leeds slipped towards their first spell outside
the top two divisions of English football.


Leeds took a 12th minute lead when Richard Cresswell headed home
after David Healy's fierce shot had been parried by Shane Supple.


But Ipswich equalised through Alan Lee with just two minutes to
go, sparking chaotic scenes. Leeds fans invaded the pitch in
stoppage time and both teams sprinted from the field before
finally returning over 25 minutes later to play out the final
seconds.


Dennis Wise's third-bottom team are three points behind Hull, who
won 1-0 at Cardiff, with just a game to go and their goal
difference is nine goals worse than their rivals, leaving them
all but relegated.


It is a remarkable fall from grace for a club who were Champions
League semi- finalists in 2001, but are now faced with trips to
Carlisle, Northampton and Hartlepool.


Southend will join Leeds in League One after a 3-1 home defeat
against Luton condemned Steve Tilson's side to the drop.


Preston are in danger of squandering their promotion hopes after
a 2-0 defeat at Plymouth saw them fall out of the play-off
places.


Paul Simpson's side have lost six of their last seven matches and
are now eighth, a point outside the play-offs, after late goals
from Sylvan Ebanks-Blake and Barry Hayles at Home Park.


West Bromwich, Wolverhampton and Southampton hold the remaining
top six places, but none are certain to claim a play-off place.


A first half goal from Paul Robinson gave West Bromwich a 1-0 win
at Coventry, while Andy Keogh and Michael Kightly were
Wolverhampton's goalscorers as they beat QPR 2-0. Leon Best's
30th minute strike sealed Southampton's 1-0 win at Norwich.

