

The Coastal Sharks scored four tries to earn a valuable bonus
point when they beat the Lions 33-3 here at Absa Stadium
Saturday.


The victory took the men from Durban into second place on the
Super 14 points table and kept alive their hopes of hosting a
home semifinal in two weeks' time.


The table-topping Canterbury Crusaders, who lost 15-6 to the ACT
Brumbies earlier on Saturday, are still in first place with 41
points, a single point ahead of the Sharks.


"After what's happened in the last 24 hours we were desperate for
the five points, it means a lot to us," said Sharks captain John
Smit.


"It's a congested log with a number of teams still in the race,
and we're still taking it one week at a time."


The Auckland Blues are in second place with 37 points, followed
by the Northern Bulls, also on 37, but the Pretoria side are 17
points worse off in the points difference table.


A five-point haul by the Sharks against the Western Stormers in
Cape Town in their final game will ensure they stage one of the
two semifinals.


Should they win and the Crusaders lose to the Chiefs the Sharks
will end on top of the standings. The Sharks outscored the Lions
four tries to none in an error- ridden encounter in Durban on
Saturday.


A big chunk of the game was played with light rain falling on the
field, while at one stage there were fears action would be halted
after a nasty hail-storm rained down on Absa Stadium.


The home side dominated the first half, racing into a 19-0 lead
before the Lions ended the first half with a penalty through
fullback Earl Rose.


Percy Montgomery opened the scoring with a three-pointer after
two minutes before Frans Steyn knocked over a 50 metre attempt
and then Montgomery slotted his second on 15 minutes to give the
Sharks a 9-0 lead.


Then with 10 minutes to go to the break, Sharks winger JP
Pietersen scored the first of his two tries to make it 14-0 and
then five minutes later he crossed again after receiving a
perfect pass from Smit.


Changing over 19-3 up after the Rose penalty, the Sharks extended
their lead close on 60 minutes when hard-working flanker Jacques
Botes found space to burst through the defence after a good drive
from the lineout, with the conversion by Montgomery making it
26-3.


The Sharks earned their bonus point for scoring four tries with
12 minutes to go when Botes scored his second on the right-hand
side of the in-goal area after a Lions scrum feed was turned over
by the powerful Sharks scrum. Montgomery added the extras to make
it 33-3 for the Durban men.


The Sharks end their round-robin fixtures against the Western
Stormers in Cape Town next weekend. The Lions complete their up
and down campaign against the Central Cheetahs at Ellis Park in
Johannesburg.

