

Carlos Tevez, whose signing cost West Ham a 5.5-million-pound
fine helped repay a large part of that sum on Saturday as he
masterminded his team's emphatic 3-0 victory at fellow strugglers
Wigan.


Goals from Luis Boa Morte, Yossi Benayoun and Marlon Harewood
secured three priceless points and completed an incredibly
productive weekend for Alan Curbishley's team who have now won
five of their last seven league games in an extraordinary run
that could well keep them in the top flight next season.


West Ham had feared that the Premier League would dock them
points for the irregularities arising from the signing of Tevez
and Javier Mascherano last summer but escaped, instead, with a
record fine which, when compared to the estimated 40 million
pounds cost of relegation, was a decision that was well received
by the club and its supporters.


The relief that followed the Premier League announcement clearly
carried over into the team's visit to the JJB Stadium where more
than 5,000 West Ham supporters saw their team record a famous
victory.


When Matt Jackson and Leighton Baines dithered over clearing the
ball in their own penalty area within seconds of the start, the
West Ham fans massed behind that goal could sniff blood and the
moment set the tone for a confident opening by the visitors.


Baines had to make a telling tackle to stop Benayoun on his first
minute foray into the Wigan area, Tevez had a shot blocked by
Emmerson Boyce after his persistence had seen off Jackson and
Mark Noble's brilliant through ball played in Boa Morte only for
the midfielder to allow himself to be crowded out by some
desperate Wigan defending.


Wigan had no player of Benayoun or Tevez's composure or guile -
as the latter proved in the 29th minute when defenders backed off
and allowed him to shoot inches wide from the edge of the area -
and on the half hour the visitors took a deserved lead with an
elementary goal that underlined Wigan's defensive weaknesses.


A long punt forward from Lucas Neill rattled the already shaky
Wigan defence and forced John Filan to err into a sprint from his
area. Boa Morte judged the bounce better than the keeper and
Boyce, poking the ball past the pair and into the Wigan goal from
20 yards out.


Minutes later, West Ham strung together the move of the match,
Benayoun to Tevez to the overlapping Boa Morte whose cross found
Bobby Zamora for a shot that was charged down by a group of blue
shirts.


There was no sign of an immediate improvement in Wigan's
fortunes, the goal clearly breathing yet more confidence into the
visitors.


Tevez showed great footwork to escape Jackson and curl a shot
just wide before Benayoun and Zamora's back heel played in Tevez
yet again for a shot which hit a Wigan defender and almost
sneaked past the wrong-footed Filan.


Wigan manager Paul Jewell made further substitutions with Julius
Aghahowa's 54th-minute introduction clearly a last throw of the
dice and one which did not take long to backfire.


Three minutes later, Tevez broke lightning-quick out of defence
at the end of another unfulfilled Wigan attack and passed to
George McCartney who found Zamora on the edge of the Wigan area.
The forward turned neatly and fed the unmarked, overlapping
Benayoun who, with only Filan to beat, made no mistake.


Tevez almost claimed a deserved 64th minute goal, only for his
shot to strike a post with Nigel Reo-Coker's follow-up effort
being spectacularly cleared off the line by Leighton Baines.


But before the finish, West Ham managed to improve their goal
difference, scoring again on a swift counter-attack that saw Reo-
Coker pass to the unmarked Boa Morte whose nonchalant pass
allowed substitute Harewood a routine 81st minute finish.

