

A rain of missiles could degrade Iran's nuclear programme and set
it back years, a German weekly quoted Israel's prime minister as
saying, sparking a warning from Tehran that such a strike would
be a dangerous "error".


"It may not be possible to destroy all of the Iranian nuclear
programme, but it is possible to damage to in such a way it would
be set back several years," Ehud Olmert was quoted as saying in
Focus magazine in an interview to be published on Monday.


"It's technically feasible. It would require 10 days and the
launch of a thousand Tomahawk missiles," he said, according to
excerpts made available on Saturday.


But Olmert's office issued a denial that the prime minister had
raised the prospect of cruise missile attacks on Iran's nuclear
facilities.


"During an informal half-hour discussion with a stringer, the
prime minister did not at any time make the statements which were
published," said his spokeswoman, Miri Eisin.


"The prime minister has not changed his position: he believes
international sanctions are for the moment the most effective
means of preventing Iran from pursuing its military nuclear
programme," she said in a statement.


She said the premier's office could decide to sue the journalist.


According to Focus, Olmert said "nobody could exclude" military
action against Iran if the Islamic republic continued to defy UN
resolutions calling for a halt to sensitive atomic work feared to
be a step towards building a nuclear arsenal.


Iranian authorities immediately described Olmert's reported
comments as empty "bravado," according to the state-run news
agency Isna.


The head of its parliamentary foreign affairs commission, Alladin
Borojerdy, said: "If the United States and Israel commit such a
mistake, they know better than anybody what the consequences will
be for themselves."


He added that the head of the UN nuclear watchdog "Mohamed
ElBaradei has stated that Iran's nuclear science cannot be
destroyed by missile strikes ... because the science is
national."


Many of Iran's nuclear facilities are believed to be deep
underground, in reinforced bunkers difficult to destroy with
conventional weapons.


Israel has repeatedly said in recent weeks that it wants to see
the crisis over Iran's programme resolved through diplomatic
means.


But unsubstantiated reports have suggested that the Jewish state
and the United States have prepared plans for military strikes.

