

The report into the failures of last summer's war against
Hezbollah, due to published on Monday, will not call for Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's resignation, Channel 10 television
said on Saturday.


The station said the Winograd Commission report, of which it had
obtained a copy, denounces the "precipitous and unwise" manner in
which Olmert decided to start a war with the Shiite militia in
Lebanon.


While it does not explicitly demand the premier's dismissal, it
deplores the fact that he allowed himself to be influenced by
former military chief of staff Dan Halutz during the fighting,
without listening to other advice or coming up with a long-term
strategy, Channel 10 said.


Citing sources close to Olmert, the station said the prime
minister had no intention of resigning and would argue he had the
support of ministers and parliament in going to war.


The 34-day conflict began last July 12 after Hezbollah launched a
cross-border attack from Lebanon, capturing two Israeli soldiers
and resulting in the deaths of eight more soldiers.


It ended on August 14 with a UN-brokered ceasefire, but the two
Israeli soldiers are still missing.


The interim findings of the commission, headed by retired judge
Eliahu Winograd, is less critical of Defence Minster Amir Peretz,
but it does point to his "complete lack of military experience".


Halutz is expected to be accused of underestimating the impact of
Katyusha rocket fire from Lebanon into northern Israel that
forced a million Israelis to live in bomb shelters or flee to the
south of the Jewish state.


He is also criticised of being unable to adapt strategy during
the conflict and trying to silence those within the army who
faulted the way in which the war was being waged.


Olmert was one of 70 politicians and military officers who
testified before the commission, which ended its hearings on
February 1.


Ahead of the report's findings, Olmert has tried to minimise
failures during the war while at the same time admitting there
had been "problems." So far the most senior head to roll over the
conflict was Halutz, who quit in January.


On Thursday an Olmert aide said that the embattled premier, whose
ratings have reached unprecedented lows, will step down if the
commission recommends such a move.


"There is no doubt that everything recommended by the Winograd
Commission, which enjoys the confidence of the population, will
be applied, including if it delivers personal recommendations,"
Lior Horev told army radio.


But if there is no recommendation for Olmert to go, "this could
give the prime minister an electoral upswing," Horev said.

