

A recently revived Basque political party will be allowed to
operate after Spanish authorities could find no links to the
armed group ETA or its outlawed political wing, a top judge said
Saturday.


The Eusko Abertzale Akintza-Action Nationalist Basque party (EAE-
ANV) can legally operate and will not be subject to the ban
applying to the Batasuna party, judge Baltasar Garzon ruled.


He based his judgment on a police report that said, "We cannot
determine that ANV is an instrument of ETA-Batasuna, even though
it has some affinities in terms of its goals."


Garzon said in a written decision that certain elements of the
party seem to show "the proximity, the influence and the possible
participation of Batasuna ... in the preparation of electoral
lists." But he said the party's leaders did not have links with
ETA.


The EAE-ANV was one of the founding elements of Batasuna in 1978,
but had been inoperative until recently. Its sudden revival to
put up candidates for May 27 municipal and regional elections
aroused suspicions that ETA's political wing was trying to sneak
into the polls.


Batasuna has been prohibited as a party since 2003 because of its
ties to ETA, which has been blamed for over 800 deaths in its
four-decade campaign to achieve independence for the Basque
region in northern Spain and southern France.


ETA's political arm won 10 percent of the vote in regional
elections in 2001 and 20 percent in 1999 municipal elections.


In March, Batasuna presented a new party, Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, to contest the May elections, but it too is expected to
be banned, as are supposedly apolitical "citizen lists" inspired
by Batasuna.


A candidate on one of the lists, Gorka Murillo, was ordered
detained by Garzon Saturday for suspected membership of ETA,
following his arrest in the northern province of Navarra.


Documents allegedly found at his home included photographs of
Spanish military vehicles, suggesting possible targets for a new
armed ETA unit said to have been smashed by police at the end of
last March.


Batasuna leader Joseba Permach said Saturday the pro-independence
movement's absence from elections would mean "an enormous
failure" for the peace process, according to Basque newspaper
Gara.


ETA declared a permanent ceasefire in March last year that was
shattered by a December 30 bombing at Madrid airport. The bombing
wrecked tentative attempts by Spain's socialist government to
engage in a dialogue with ETA on reaching a political settlement
for the region's future.

