

Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez's decision to leave out captain
Steven Gerrard backfired as the Champions League hopefuls slumped
to their first league defeat in seven weeks, losing 2-1 away at
Portsmouth.


Stand-in centreback Sami Hyypia's second half goal was not enough
as Liverpool gave Arsenal hope of leapfrogging the Merseysiders
in the chase for third place.


Benitez rested most of his first-team regulars ahead of Tuesday's
must-win semi final second leg with Chelsea.


Midfielder Gerrard, goalkeeper Pepe Reina and defender Jamie
Carragher were all absent from the 16-man squad while Dutch
striker Dirk Kuyt was named only on the bench.


Former Boca Juniors defender Emiliano Insua made his debut while
there were rare starts for Jerzy Dudek, in goal, and ex-England
striker Robbie Fowler.


It took until the 25th minute for either side to muster a serious
attempt on goal in the sunshine at Fratton Park.


Portsmouth midfielder Gary O'Neil got in between Gabriel Paletta
and Alvaro Arbeloa before unleashing a well struck right-foot
curler, which Reina's deputy Dudek tipped past a post.


Five-time European champions Liverpool found themselves behind
with only 27 minutes played when Zimbabwean international striker
Benjani Mwaruwari took advantage of some more hesitant defending
to notch his second goal in three games.


Portsmouth goalkeeper David James's long ball was allowed to
bounce by Argentinean Paletta, and Benjani lifted over the
onrushing Dudek with his right foot before heading into an
unguarded net.


Insua and Xabi Alonso both put speculative long-range shots into
the stands as Liverpool struggled to break down their UEFA Cup-
chasing opponents.


Substitute Niko Kranjcar doubled Portsmouth's lead 13 minutes
before half-time when he capped a fine breakaway move with his
second goal in English football.


Former Arsenal defended Lauren played in a delightful diagonal
pass, which Croatian international Kranjcar, an early replacement
for the injured Matthew Taylor, controlled on the chest and
calmly slotted the ball past the Dudek from 10 yards.


Bolo Zenden came agonisingly close to getting Liverpool back into
the game late in the first half when he hammered a 35-yard pile
driver against the crossbar.


Arbeloa almost gifted Portsmouth a third early in the second half
when he allowed Benjani to take the ball from his toe but the
Spaniard's blushes were spared when he shot straight at Dudek.


Captain Hyypia earned Liverpool a lifeline when he headed his
fourth goal of the season 14 minutes after the interval.


Fowler picked out Hyypia with a perfectly weighted left-wing
corner and the Finnish defender rose above the home defence to
nod past former Anfield teammate James from six yards.


Liverpool were denied an equaliser soon after when Craig Bellamy
raced onto Fowler's chipped pass only for defender Linvoy Primus
to slide in and block the shot.


Richard Hughes was presented with a glorious chance to score his
first ever Premier League goal when he headed wide from six yards
out after being picked out by Gary O'Neil's out swinging corner.


James prevented his old club snatching a point late on when he
spread himself to palm away Fowler's close range shot two minutes
from time after substitute Jermaine Pennant had split the
Portsmouth defence with a ball over the top.


The win lifted Pompey above Reading and into seventh place, which
courtesy of Manchester United and Chelsea's FA Cup final
qualification would be enough to qualify for Europe for the first
time in their 109-year history.

