

The head of OSCE called on Saturday for a debate in the world's
largest regional security bloc on US plans to deploy an anti-
missile system in eastern Europe.


The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
is the "appropriate forum to debate Washington's propositions on
anti-missile defence," Miguel Angel Moratinos said in a press
release.


The foreign minister of Spain, which this year holds OSCE's
rotating presidency, said he "agreed" with Russian President
Vladimir Putin who had suggested on Friday debating the matter in
the 56-nation body.


On Thursday, Putin stunned Western capitals when he announced the
suspension of Moscow's participation in the Conventional Forces
in Europe (CFE) treaty in response to Washington's missile shield
proposals.


The 1990 accord, which imposes strict limits on troop deployments
across the continent, was signed by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation (NATO) and the Warsaw Pact and modified in 1999
after the fall of the Soviet Union and the East bloc.


NATO called on Friday for clarification of Russia's position on
the treaty.


"I believe we should discuss this matter under the OSCE
framework, but the moratorium on the CFE does not help to achieve
this objective," Moratinos said in his statement on Saturday.


OSCE's next annual security conference in June in Vienna, "could
be an important forum for these discussions," he said in a
statement put out by the Spanish foreign ministry.


Moratinos highlighted the important role OSCE had played in the
past in easing diplomatic difficulties between the United States,
Russia, and other European nations.


The organisation, whose member states stretch from Europe,
through the Caucasus and Central Asia to North America, was
created as an East-West forum during the Cold War but has now
evolved considerably.


The US has proposed siting 10 interceptor missiles in Poland and
a targeting radar in the Czech Republic by 2012. They would be
oriented toward ballistic missile threats from the south.


The Pentagon insists the anti-missile system would defend against
one-off threats from countries such as Iran and North Korea and
could have no effect against Russia's enormous nuclear missile
arsenal.


Moscow's opposition to the US deployment is steadily hardening,
fuelling East- West tensions already heightened over differences
on independence for Kosovo, Putin's record on democracy, and
Russian energy policies.

