

World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz faces the development bank's
investigatory committee Monday to plead his case over revelations
he ordered a huge pay deal and promotions for his girlfriend
Shaha Riza.


The former US deputy secretary of defense, whose two years at the
World Bank have been marked by controversy and dissent by bank
staff, will meet the committee together with Riza, herself a
senior bank official, and his powerful Washington lawyer Robert
Bennett.


"We want to make a presentation to them to show that this
conflict of interest allegation is absolutely false," Bennett
told AFP, arguing that Wolfowitz is being "smeared" by opponents.


The meeting comes after weeks of pressure on Wolfowitz, one of
the architects of the Iraq war, to resign, with top bank staff
openly declaring the bank cannot move ahead on its development
agenda with Wolfowitz in the top job.


The investigatory committee, drawn from the full board of 24
national representatives, is examining not just the Riza affair
but Wolfowitz's naming former White House aides to key jobs in
his inner circle.


"They have some policy disputes with him and there are some
international power issues," said Bennett, who helped former
president Bill Clinton settle a sexual harassment case in 1998.


Wolfowitz acted on the advice of the bank's ethics committee in
trying to resolve a potential conflict of interest between
himself and Riza after he became president in June 2005.


But officials contend that he was never directed to personally
order guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth nearly 200,000
dollars for his Libyan-born companion when she was reassigned to
a US government job.


Critics say the credibility of the World Bank itself is being
shredded, not least over a campaign spearheaded by Wolfowitz to
root out corruption.


Pressure intensified at the end of last week with an open letter
from 46 senior staff involved in implementing his "Governance and
Anticorruption" strategy on the ground.


Without calling outright for the president's ouster, they
appealed for "clear and decisive actions to resolve this crisis
quickly," saying local bank officials in aid recipient countries
are mocking Wolfowitz's anti-corruption program in light of his
own behavior.

