

Bangladesh's main shipbuilder said on Saturday it had won a 100
-million-dollar contract to build eight vessels, a deal seen as
helping pave the way for the nation to emerge as a major
shipbuilder.


Shipbuilding officials and local media said the contract was the
impoverished South Asian nation's single biggest export order.


Ananda Shipyards Shipways Ltd (ASSL) signed the joint deal with
two German companies earlier this month to build eight ships with
capacity for 325 containers by June 2010, company chairman
Abdullahel Bari told AFP.


"This is the single biggest export order for Bangladesh and it
will go a long way to making the country a major world
shipbuilding nation," Bari said.


Government officials could not be reached for confirmation on
whether it was Bangladesh's biggest export order as offices were
shut for the weekend.


Bangladesh has become a new destination for companies seeking
construction of small ocean-going vessels as traditional
shipbuilding nations such as South Korea and China now focus on
building large ships.


Schiffahrtskontor Tom Woden GmbH and Co and Ernst Komrowki
Holding KG signed the deal with ASSL after inspecting its
facilities on the river Meghna and failing to find any
shipbuilder willing to construct ships for them in China.


"They're convinced we can build ships and deliver them on time.
We have enough skilled workforce," said Bari, adding he planned
to double his 700-strong workforce to fill the order.


The company has invested heavily in equipment in the past few
years.


With the new deal "we have orders worth 125 million dollars. We
will hand over two ships to a Danish company by year-end. We're
also in talks with a Dutch company to build 22 ships for them,"
Bari said.


"We're now swamped with orders," he said.


Announcement of the deal comes after Western Marine, another
shipbuilder in the southeastern port city of Chittagong, last
week clinched an 11-million-dollar order to build a tugboat for a
Singapore company.


Riverine Bangladesh has been known for its small ferry-making
industry since its independence in 1971. Most of the country's
nearly 3,000 ferries were made in the country's shipyards.


Bangladesh's more than one dozen shipbuilding yards employ some
20,000 workers but officials say they can ramp up production and
manpower quickly.


Expert said it was only a matter of time until Bangladesh emerges
as a major hub for building small ocean-going ships.


"The country has always had enough skilled and cheap workforce.
Now it has the know-how and facilities," said C.F. Zaman,
Bangladesh head of worldwide ship inspection agency Germischer
Lloyd.


"I can easily foresee local shipbuilding emerging as a billion-
dollar industry in four to five years' time. It can easily be a
global leader in the small-ship making industry."


ASSL chief Bari said the industry even had the potential to dwarf
the country's garments sector, the biggest export earner.


"It took us 25 years to earn 10 billion dollars a year in the
garments sector. The shipbuilders can do it in less than 10
years," he said.

