

Sitting on a wooden chair surrounded with dozens of women and
children carrying photos of murdered or missing loved ones, Agron
Limani recounted the horror story he said occurred in this tiny
Kosovo village.


In just one day, on March 26, 1999, 103 ethnic Albanian men aged
13 to 70 were killed in an old stable, Limani told a visiting UN
Security Council 15-member delegation on Saturday.


"Those of you who are aware of what has happened in Srebrenica or
Vukovar, can assume what happened here," he said soberly,
comparing the killings with war crimes committed in this Bosnian
and Croatian towns during the 1990s war.


The men were murdered two days after NATO began bombing Serbia in
a bid to stop the 1998-1999 army crackdown on independence-
seeking ethnic Albanians.


More than 10,000 ethnic Albanians died while hundreds of
thousands fled Kosovo during the war.


"Those were our Serbian neighbours... They intentionally
separated men from women, murdering 70 percent of men from our
village," Limani said.


Mala Krusha, a hamlet surrounded by oak woods and sitting on the
banks of the river Drim, was almost reduced to ashes during the
war.


The UN team visiting the village was on day two of a three-day
mission to Serbia and its southern province of Kosovo to gather
information ahead of a UN Security Council decision on whether to
grant the territory independence.


The province, predominantly inhabited by ethnic Albanians, has
been under UN administration since the end of the war in June
1999. A special UN envoy, Martti Ahtisaari, has recommended that
province be granted "supervised independence" in a UN Security
Council vote expected within weeks.


Leonita Batusha, who was only 14 when 22 of her relatives were
murdered in Mala Krusha, said she believed her village's
experience should convince the UN delegates that independence "is
the only solution."


She spoke of how the women of the village helplessly watched as
Serbian militia burnt houses and pulled corpses of the slain men
from the stable and threw them into the river.


Shemsije Hajdari, 67, who lost 15 cousins here, added: "It would
be a great shame if Serbian authority was established again in
Kosovo."


But in nearby Orahovac, a tiny Serb community feared the worst if
Kosovo gained independence.


"I haven't been to my home for three years, although its only 300
meters (yards) away," said 23-year old Slobodan Stankovic.


Fear and insecurity was so high that Stankovic took his pregnant
wife Jovanka for a medical check-up in Serb-populated Mitrovica,
120 kilometers (72 miles) from Orahovac, instead of going to a
hospital in the southern part of the town which is populated by
15,000 Albanians.


"We live like in a ghetto, and even bury our dead in a church
yard, since the cemetry is in the north," said Stankovic.


Sitting on a porch of her tiny house in the hillside northern
part of the town, 66-year old Stana Radovanovic said her seven
children fled Orahovac after the conflict, fearing revenge
attacks by ethnic Albanian extremists.


"My only wish is for my children to return and to spend the rest
of my life with them here in peace and freedom," she said with
tears in her eyes.


Although NATO-led peacekeepers often patrol the area, Stankovic
had no confidence they could provide enough security for the
Serbs. More than 200,000 Serbs and non-Albanians left to escape
reprisals after UN and NATO moved in.


"They bombed us in 1999, now they are, like, 'protecting' us," he
said with a sardonic smirk.


Kosovo Serbs, backed by Belgrade and Russia, are strongly opposed
to Kosovo  -- considered the historic heartland of the Serbian
nation -- being granted independence. Serbia has suggested that
"supervised autonomy" be offered instead.


"God has given us this sacred land and I will never leave,"
Stankovic said.

