

A rare earthquake shook households in southeast England on
Saturday, toppling chimneys, causing power cuts and alarming
residents, authorities said.


The tremor, which the British Geological Survey (BGS) said hit
4.3 on the Richter scale, struck just after 8:15 am (0715 GMT)
but left one woman suffering a minor head and neck injury which
required hospital treatment.


"Given the time that this has happened, people should be
genuinely thankful that so few people have been injured," Chief
Superintendent Alasdair Hope of Kent Police said.


The quake -- whose epicentre was identified by the BGS as being
7.5 miles (12 kilometres) off the coast of Dover, in the English
Channel -- was the largest to hit Britain since one in the West
Midlands in 2002.


Most of the damage was caused in the town of Folkestone, although
the quake was felt around Kent and up to 100 miles (160
kilometres) away from its epicentre in other counties such as
Essex, East Sussex and Suffolk.


A spokesman for Kent's Fire and Rescue Service said they had
received around 200 calls, with people complaining that "their
chimneys have fallen down (and of) large cracks in people's
houses."


Electricity and gas supplies to homes in some parts of Kent were
cut off but were later restored. Authorities are still
investigating some reports of gas smells in the aftermath of the
quake.


Hendrick van Eck, 27, from the city of Canterbury, said that the
tremor lasted just a few seconds.


"I then heard the sound of cracking and it was getting heavier
and heavier. It felt as if someone was at the end of my bed
hopping up and down," he said.


Sharon Hayles, from the nearby village of Stanford, said it felt
like "the whole house was being slid across like a funfair ride."


And Paul Smye-Rumsby, from the port town of Dover, told BBC
radio: "Suddenly the bed shook violently. I thought my wife had
got cramp or something but then I saw the curtains were moving
and the house was shaking. It lasted about 1.5 seconds."


According to the United States Geological Survey, the quake
measured 4.7 on the open-ended Moment Magnitude scale now used by
US seismologists.


The depth of the epicentre was put at 7.1 kilometres (4.4 miles).


A spokesman for Eurostar, which links Britain to continental
Europe by rail via the Channel Tunnel, said that services at the
Ashford terminal in Kent, near where the quake hit, were
unaffected.

