

President Hamid Karzai reiterated his calls for Taliban fighters
to put down their arms at a military parade Saturday that showed
off Afghanistan's newly- acquired weaponry and growing army.


The president and his cabinet were among scores of dignitaries at
a march-past of soldiers and equipment, much of it given by
Afghanistan's international allies, to mark the 15th anniversary
of the communist regime's defeat.


"Once again, we invite those who are deceived by aliens
(foreigners) and are standing against their nation, to stop
insurgence and violence and come and continue peaceful life,"
Karzai said in an address.


The president has often said Taliban fighters are being used by
extremist Islamist elements in foreign countries, notably
Pakistan.


He has previously offered an olive branch to Taliban supporters
"whose hands are not stained in blood" -- which would exclude the
movement's leader Mullah Mohammad Omar and Gulbudin Hekmatyar,
head of a ruthless Islamist faction.


Defence Minister Abdul Rahim Wardak said there had not been
enough awareness of the equipment and "foreign support" given to
the rebels in the four years that followed the fall of the
Taliban government in 2001.


This had allowed the insurgency to pick up speed, he said.


Saturday's anniversary was a display of Afghanistan's growing
military and a show of power to Taliban insurgents, who are
stepping up their attacks.


Afghanistan's army, which reached about 200,000 in the late
1980s, was destroyed in the 1992-1996 civil war between the
factions that drove out the Soviet invaders and ended communism.


The war killed around 50,000 people in Kabul alone and left the
city in ruins. It ended with the Taliban takeover in 1996.


The Taliban and their Al-Qaeda allies were driven from power in a
US-led invasion in 2001, resulting in a flood of international
troops and aid in a bid to prevent the country from sliding back
into the chaos that incubated extremism.


Much of the focus is on rebuilding the Afghan army.


Washington announced last year it wanted to spend 8.6 billion
dollars on training and equipping the Afghan security forces over
the next two years.


In February it handed over more than 200 Humvee vehicles and more
than 12,000 light weapons in what was described as the "tip of
the iceberg" of the planned commitment.

