

It was was virtually a home away from home for Ricky Ponting's
Australians and Mahela Jayawardene's Sri Lankans when they
clashed in the World Cup final here on Saturday.


Thousands of Australian and Sri Lankan fans were present at the
Kensington Oval nearly two hours before Ponting and Jayawardene
walked out for the toss.


The uncertain weather - bright sunshine followed by drizzle -
failed to dim the enthusiasm of the fans whose numbers kept
increasing.


"I think we are going to win and why not? We were expecting our
team to be in the final," said Charitha Nanayakkara, a 25-year-
old student from Manchester in England.


"It'll be bigger than the 1996 World Cup final victory because I
can say 'I was there'. I watched that final on TV and I remember
the fireworks going on."


Sri Lanka beat Australia in the 1996 final when they posted a
seven-wicket victory at Lahore in Pakistan under Arjuna
Ranatunga's captaincy.


Sri Lankan fan Kupek Muruges said each player needed to
contribute against Australia if Jayawardene's team hoped to
repeat that success.


"I think Sanath Jayasuriya, Muttiah Muralitharan and Lasith
Malinga will play big roles. I also think Jayasuriya will make a
hundred today," said Muruges, also from Manchester.


"But we'll still be enjoying it even if we lose. We are in the
final of a big tournament and we'll still be the second best team
in the world."


Sri Lanka were assured of support from other quarters also.


"From the day we arrived in the Caribbean, the public has been
brilliant for us. Maybe the primary reason is the brand of
cricket we play," said the Sri Lankan captain.


"We love the whole atmosphere in the Caribbean because it's much
similar to what we get back home .. the music, the cheering. We
have thoroughly enjoyed it and they have been very supportive.


"In the course of the tournament, we have created more fans here
than any other team and hopefully they support us in the final."


The Australian fans, dressed in yellow and green, have been
following their team for most of the matches and expected them to
win the final.


"We expect Australia to win. They have been training very hard
and are very professional," said Steve Corradi, a 39-year-old
from Cairns.


"But it's the final and anything can happen. I'm a bit nervous
also. I hope we win the toss and bat first and then finish it off
with our bowling. I'd also like to see Adam Gilchrist do well."


David Dilley, a 47-year-old from Sydney, said he believed that
Ponting and left- arm fast bowler Nathan Bracken would play big
roles.


"Ponting with the bat, and Bracken with the ball," said Dilley,
who has watched most of Australia's Cup matches.


"I am expecting a tight game, with Australia to win. But I won't
be shocked if Sri Lanka win."

