

Moroccan tourism chiefs on Saturday insisted the recent suicide
bombings in Casablanca have had little impact on the country's
tourist industry, saying it continues to make great progress.


Tourism Minister Adil Douiri told the 7th International Tourism
Conference in Fes, in central Morocco, that "we are on the right
track" in achieving the industry's stated goal of 10 million
tourists by 2010.


In 2005, 5.8 million tourists visited Morocco, bringing in 3.7
billion euros (5.0 billion dollars). This rose to 6.6 million in
2006, with revenue of 4.8 billion euros.


Douiri's optimism was shared by Jalil Benabbes Taarji, the head
of the National Federation of Tourism, who said: "Now is a
veritable springtime in Moroccan tourism."


He said the suicide bombings in Casablanca in March and earlier
this month "had only a marginal effect" and urged national and
foreign holiday operators to continue investing in the north
African country.


For his part, the head of the Accor hotel and services group in
Morocco, Marc Thepot, said the recent explosions "had no impact"
on tourism.


"We had already progressed in all our plans in a sustained
fashion, despite the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United
States and those of May 16, 2003" in Casablanca, which killed 45
including 12 bombers, he told AFP.


Christopher Oakes, of the Bangkok-based Six Senses resort and spa
company, added that "in the long-term, there is no problem and
Morocco handled the situation well after the explosions in
Casablanca."


"I find that there are opportunities to be had in Marrakech and
in the neighbouring valley of Ourika, and possibly in Tangiers on
the Strait of Gibraltar," he told AFP.


The National Federation of Tourism's 'Vision 2010' plan aims to
create 600,000 jobs and 160,000 new beds in Morocco by the end of
the decade, and the annual conferences are a chance to assess
progress against that goal.


In a message read out to Saturday's meeting, Morocco's King
Mohammed VI also urged officials and professionals to look beyond
this target to 2020.


The growth in Moroccan tourism has been accompanied by the
liberalisation of air transport, and by the conclusion last year
of a new "open skies" agreement with the European Union.


Morocco continues to target six priority markets in Europe:
France, Britain, Germany, Spain, Italy and the Benelux countries.
The conference organisers said these grew by 30 percent, or
700,000 visitors, between 2001 and 2005.


"Morocco has become one of the biggest brands in European
tourism," they added.

