

Robbie Keane kept Tottenham on course for a UEFA Cup spot as his
double strike clinched a 3-2 win at Middlesbrough on Saturday.


The Ireland striker has been in superb form lately and he opened
the scoring before Dimitar Berbatov added a second for Spurs.
Mark Viduka got one back, but Keane grabbed his second and
Emanuel Pogatetz's late goal was no consolation for the hosts.


Martin Jol's side moved into eighth place and, with a game in
hand, they should earn the top seven finish that guarantees a
place in the UEFA Cup.


Middlesbrough nearly took an early lead when Viduka found
Ayegbeni Yakubu in the box, but the Nigeria striker shot straight
at Paul Robinson.


Spurs responded well and Berbatov made space for a low effort
which nearly crept past Australia keeper Mark Schwarzer.


Berbatov went even closer moments later with a fierce shot that
whistled just past a post. The Bulgarian has been the key to
Spurs' eye-catching play this season and it was inevitable that
he had a hand in their goal after 12 minutes.


He glided away from Pogatetz before caressing a pass to Keane,
who calmly placed his shot past Schwarzer.


It was the Ireland striker's 13th goal in 13 matches and
underlined why Jol has preferred him to Jermain Defoe so often
this season.


Berbatov should have increased Tottenham's lead but he shot well
over from a tight angle midway through the half.


With the home fans growing restless, Berbatov almost gave Keane a
second with a cross that the former Inter Milan and Leeds United
forward was just unable to turn in.


Middlesbrough had struggled to find any attacking momentum, but
Viduka could have levelled on the stroke of half time with a
strike that flashed just wide.


Berbatov was tearing Middlesbrough apart and he deservedly got on
the scoresheet two minutes into the second half.


Hossam Ghaly crossed from the right and Berbatov produced a
perfectly-timed 25-yard volley that gave Schwarzer no chance.


Gareth Southgate's side reduced the deficit in the 66th minute
when Viduka met Stewart Downing's cross with a powerful header
for his 16th goal of the season.


It took a superb stop from Paul Robinson to keep Spurs ahead as
the England keeper parried George Boateng's effort.


But Keane put Tottenham in complete control after 83 minutes.
Aaron Lennon cut a pass back into Keane's path and the forward
buried his shot into the top corner of Schwarzer's goal.


Pogatetz nodded in Downing's corner in the final moments but it
was too little, too late for Middlesbrough.

