

Estonia accused Russia on Saturday of stoking tensions in its
Baltic neighbour as a row surrounding riots at a Soviet-era war
memorial that left one Russian dead intensified.


The foreign ministries of the two countries traded angry and
conflicting statements over the death of the Russian on Thursday
night near the statue of the Bronze Soldier in the Estonian
capital Tallinn.


The Russian side confirmed its national had been killed in the
riots and attacked Estonian police for "excessive force used
against demonstrators defending a memorial to those who fought
against fascism."


The Estonians countered that the death was in "no way linked to
the activity of law enforcement officials" and said the hundreds
of youths who ran riot in Tallinn were vandalising shops and
businesses, not defending the war memorial.


Estonians see the bronze memorial as a symbol of 50 years of
Soviet occupation following World War II. The Estonian
authorities removed the statue from the center of Tallinn early
Friday after the first night of rioting, in which the Russian was
killed.


"The Estonian foreign ministry considers it regrettable that the
groundless accusations made by the Russian foreign ministry are
aimed at exacerbating the situation in Estonia," the Estonian
foreign ministry statement said.


Russian President Vladimir Putin voiced Saturday serious concern
over what he described as the "crisis situation" in Estonia,
while a surge in anti-Estonian sentiment was in evidence in
Moscow and other Russian cities.


In Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's office said she had
urged both Putin and Estonian Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to keep
a lid on the row by showing restraint and restoring parliamentary
contacts as soon as possible.


In a sign of possible compromise, Boris Gryzlov, the speaker of
Russia's lower house or Duma, said a parliamentary delegation
would travel to Estonia on Monday for talks, Interfax news agency
reported.


The delegation will inform the Estonian side about a resolution
passed in the Russian parliament on Friday condemning the removal
of the memorial as a "blasphemous violation" and will look at the
situation on the ground, Gryzlov said.


"We are especially worried about the fate of detained Russian
citizens and our compatriots," he said, without giving details.


Anti-Estonian sentiment was visibly on the rise in Russia with
protesters out in force outside Estonian consulates, newspapers
voicing outrage and supermarkets boycotting goods from their
Baltic neighbour.


An Estonian embassy spokesman said the Noscow consulate was
suspending issuing visas for safety reasons, after an incident on
Thursday in which pro-Kremlin activists blocked the ambassador
from leaving the building.


"It appears the Russian police are not really providing the
necessary level of security needed for normal servicing of visa
applicants," the spokesman, Franek Persidski, told AFP.


In Saint Petersburg another 100 activists demonstrated outside
the Estonian consulate. They shouted "No to fascism!", "You can
destroy a monument but not a memory" and "No to profanation,"
witnesses said.


In the city of Pskov, 20 kilometres (12 miles) east of Russia's
border with Estonia, several dozen protesters brought an empty
coffin to the Estonian consulate, Ria Novosti news agency
reported.


Apart from the death of the Russian national, more than 153
people, including 29 police, were injured in the two nights of
rioting in Tallinn, police said Saturday.


Some 800 people have been detained in the riots, which have seen
gangs made up mainly of young Russian speakers rampage through
Tallinn, smashing the windows of the Art Academy, breaking into
the National Theatre and robbing shops, police said.


The violence first erupted in Tallinn on Thursday night when
police tried to prevent a small group of youths from breaking
through a security cordon set up around the towering bronze
figure of a Red Army soldier ahead of the statue's removal.


Russia considers it a sacred memorial to the millions of Red Army
soldiers who helped to defeat Nazism in World War II.


It reacted angrily after the statue was moved. Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov accused the Estonian government of fomenting
tensions.


Gangs of youths in downtown Tallinn overenight shouted "Rossiya!
Rossiya!" (Russia in Russian) and waved Russian flags as police
tried to keep them away from aggressive Estonian youths.


The Estonian capital was calm during the day Saturday, but
residents and shopkeepers feared further unrest.

