

The demise of a call-girl ring and pending trial of an alleged
madam claiming thousands of clients has the US capital riveted by
the chance powerful men may now be caught with their trousers
down, with a senior state department official apparently first to
fall.


Deborah Jeane Palfrey, 50, dubbed the DC Madam in local media,
has been arraigned in federal court on charges of operating a
Washington prostitution service for 13 years until her retirement
in 2006.


Palfrey has denied she ran a prostitution ring. Her company,
Pamela Martin and Associates, was simply a "high-end adult
fantasy firm which offered legal sexual and erotic services
across the spectrum of adult sexual behavior and did so without
incident during its 13 year tenure," she said.


Palfrey contends her escort service provided university educated
women to engage in legal game-playing of a sexual nature at 275
dollars an hour for a 90 minute session, the Washington Post
reported.


But Palfrey has also hinted that she has a record of the phone
numbers of thousands of more than 10,000 customers that could
embarrass more the a few of the US capital's high-fliers.


Friday, the US State Department announced that Randall Tobias,
the embattled head of the US Agency for International Development
(USAID), was resigning for unspecified personal reasons.


However ABC News, which said Palfrey has provided it with a
record of the numbers of calls to her private cell phone,
reported that Tobias stepped down after they spoke to him about
his allegedly contacting her number.


Tobias since 2003 also was President George W. Bush's first
global AIDS coordinator, a job which drew criticism for his
emphasis on faithfulness to partners and abstinence over condom
use in trying to prevent the spread of the AIDS virus.


Before entering government he was chairman, president and chief
executive of the pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly, and also, from
1997-2000, chairman of the board of trustees at Duke University.


His now-reported links to a firm accused of prostitution have
raised more than a few eyebrows.


Palfrey's California home and other assets were seized by US tax
authorities in October, and Palfrey has been trying to raise
funds for her defense through an appeal on her website.


Her lawyer, Montgomery Blair Sibley, told Fox television last
month: "The statistical certainty (is) that there are a fair
number of high-profile people who used this service across the
government and private sector in the metropolitan DC area."


And the Post reported Saturday that local jitters appear to be
multiplying. It said Sibley claimed that "he has been contacted
in the past few days has been contacted by five lawyers asking
whether their clients' phone numbers are on Palfrey's list of
10,000 to 15,000 customers from 2002 to 2006."


That may have something to do with the fact that Palfrey already
has named her first name, as it were, on her website, where she
has posted a court document from April 12 in which she alleges
formal US naval commander Harlan Ullman was a "regular customer"
whom she needs to subpoena.


With James Wade,  Ullman developed the military doctrine of
"shock and awe" used by US government in its invasion of Iraq.
According to one definition, it is shorthand for rapid dominance
based on the use of "overwhelming decisive force," "dominant
maneuvers," and "spectacular displays of power" to subdue the
other side.


Earlier this month Ullman told CNN that "The allegations do not
dignify a response," and referred any other questions to his
lawyer.

