

The ashes of "Star Trek" star James Doohan were boldly sent into
outer space Saturday when a rocket blasted off from this remote
launchpad in the New Mexico desert.


Family, friends and devotees of the cult science fiction
television series were on hand to bid a final farewell to Doohan,
beloved by Trekkies for his role as the USS Enterprise's chief
engineer Montgomery "Scotty" Scott.


Doohan died aged 85 in 2005, but plans for his posthumous
galactic send-off had been repeatedly delayed.


Finally on Saturday a symbolic portion of his ashes was on board
as a private rocket took off at around 9:00 local time (1500
GMT).


Doohan's ashes were accompanied by the remains of former US
astronaut Gordon Cooper and those of 200 other people.


Doohan's widow Wende said Friday her husband would have been
thrilled at the prospect of a "space funeral" following a
poignant service at the New Mexico Museum of Space History.


"He would be ecstatic," she said. "He would be the one pressing
the button. He totally was so into space."


Aficionados of "Star Trek" were among well-wishers who gathered
to pay their respects to the Canadian actor, who will forever be
associated with the catchphrase "Beam me up, Scotty!"


Will Steinsiek, 55, a former pastor, resplendent in a "Star Trek"
costume, said Doohan's character was integral to the series.


"In many ways, when we lost him, we lost the Enterprise,"
Steinsiek said, referring to the long-running show's famous
spaceship. "These funerals are a way to reach a dream, the dream
to go into space and back again."


Steinsiek said he had been a life-long fan of the series.


"I caught the second show, and I haven't missed one since. I've
been a long-time fan, and passed it to my son," he said.


Joe Latrell, the president of the private rocket company Beyond
Earth Roswell NM, also appeared decked out in full "Star Trek"
regalia.


He said the science fiction adventure series had accurately
predicted many of today's technological gadgets, and had also
offered a portrait of a diverse group working together for the
betterment of humanity.


"Star Trek is compelling because it shows people of diverse
origins working together and getting along," he told AFP. "Today,
we need to make that happen.


"The cell phones, the memory cards of today are almost identical
to the devices seen years ago in the series. It inspires the
people to create them."


Doohan's posthumous spaceflight saw him follow "Star Trek"
creator Gene Roddenberry, whose remains were fired into space by
Space Services I (SSI) in 1997, six years after his death.


SSI and its offshoot Celestial offer a variety of services for
families wishing to shoot the remains of loved ones into space.


Launching a single gram of ashes comes with a 495-dollar price
tag, while sending remains into deep space, a service which comes
into effect from 2009 will cost up to 12,500 dollars.

