

Estonia on Saturday accused Russia of stoking already high
tensions in the Baltic state by issuing a "groundless" statement
over the death of a Russian citizen during rioting in Tallinn.


"The Estonian Foreign Ministry considers it regrettable that the
groundless accusations made by the Russian Foreign Ministry are
aimed at exacerbating the situation in Estonia," the Foreign
Ministry in Tallinn said in a statement.


The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a statement Saturday saying a
Russian citizen named as Dmitri had been killed in riots in
Tallinn, sparked by the removal of a Soviet-era monument in the
Estonian capital.


It attacked Estonian police for "excessive force used against
demonstrators defending a memorial to those who fought against
fascism."


But the Estonian statement said that according to state
prosecutors, the death was in "no way linked to the activity of
law enforcement officials."


"The evidence gathered so far indicates that Dmitri died as a
result of wounds received in an internal quarrel between persons
who participated in mass unrest," the ministry said.


Most of those injured sustained head and hand wounds, which are
likely to have been caused by pieces of broken glass from smashed
windows," the healh ministry said.


Estonia also refuted the Russian foreign ministry claim that the
hundreds of youths who ran riot in Estonia were "defending a
memorial to those who fought against fascism," insisting they
were vandalising shops and businesses.


About 900 people, including many drunken teenagers, have been
detained in two nights of rioting in Estonia.


Estonians see the bronze Soviet war memorial as a symbol of 50
years of Soviet occupation following World War II. The Estonian
authorities removed the statue from the center of Tallinn early
Friday after the first night of rioting, in which Dmitri was
killed.


Russia considers it a sacred memorial to the Red Army soldiers
who defeated Nazism, and has threatened Tallinn with diplomatic
and economic retaliation for removing it.


Estonia is a former Soviet republic with a large Russian
minority.


Bilateral relations between the two countries and domestic
relations between the two Estonian and Russian ethnic communities
living in Estonia have been tense since the Baltic state regained
independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.

