

Rafael Nadal passed another test on clay, beating fellow Spaniard
David Ferrer 7-5, 6-1 on Saturday to stretch his winning streak
to 71 matches as he booked into the final of the Barcelona Open.


Nadal will face Argentine Guillermo Canas in Sunday's final.


Canas took another step down the road to rehabilitation following
a drugs ban by defeating Agustin Calleri 7-6 (7/1), 6-7 (5/7),
6-2.


Nadal is bidding to become the first man since Mats Wilander in
1982-1984 to lift three straight titles at the clay event.


Top seed Nadal now stands 15-1 at the Real club with his only
loss coming to countryman Alex Corretja in the second round in
2003.


Nadal needed to get past a tough opening set where he twice
traded breaks with Ferrer, before finally clinching it after
nearly an hour.


The world number two more easily found his way in the second,
exploding for three breaks of his outclassed compatriot to keep
the momentum alive in a another phenomenal spring clay campaign.


His victory in one hour, 35 minutes tied him on 26 this season
with Serb Novak Djokovic to lead the ATP list.


"This was a tough match," said the winner. "David is one of the
most difficult of the clay players.


"I'm just so happy to have kept my streak alive today. I'm really
excited about trying to win a third Barcelona title.


"I know that sometime my streak is going to end, but I'm not
thinking about that. I'm just playing through each match."


Nadal can nourish local pride with another title.


Spaniards have captured the local trophy for the last four years
and at five of the last six editions.


Finalist Canas has been ramping up his game since he returned to
the courts in September after serving a ban for a positive test
for a diuretic.


He won a clay title in February in Brazil and reached the final
of the Miami Masters.


Last month, the 29-year-old stunned Roger Federer twice on North
American hardcourt.


Canas had a battle with his burly compatriot Calleri, who won the
first two of their four career matches in 2001 and 2002.


Canas went up a break in the opening set but lost it in the ninth
game. But as the set went into a tiebreak, the 12th seed
dominated with a 7-1 sweep in the decider.


Canas struggled with nerves as he tried to close out a straight-
sets victory a set later while serving for victory leading 5-4.


He saved a match point in the next game but then contributed to
his own misfortune, double-faulting on his second match-winning
opportunity.


The inevitable tiebreak went to Calleri after more than two hours
on court.


Canas, treated mid-match on his right arm and feet, re-grouped in
the third, racing to a 3-0 lead before Calleri could react. Canas
dropped serve but got it back for a 4-2 margin on the way to
victory in a shade under three hours.

