

Russia on Saturday marked the end of an era in the deaths of two
legendary figures, Boris Yeltsin and Mstislav Rostropovich, with
newspapers reflecting on a "black week" for the country.


The death of the cellist and conductor Rostropovich on Friday,
following on the heels of that of Russia's first post-Soviet
leader, competed for space in newspapers with reports of rioting
by ethnic Russians in Estonia and the loss of a military
helicopter in Chechnya that left at least 18 people dead.


The popular Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper ran the headline "The
Black Week Isn't Over" together with a black band across its
front page as it relayed the news, referring to Rostropovich as a
symbol of the perestroika era.


Another tabloid, Komsomolskaya Pravda, declared that "one after
another we are losing the symbols of an era," surmising however
that Rostropovich and his friend Yeltsin, who died on Monday,
were "now together."


The Kommersant broadsheet declared that both musical history and
Russia's 20th century history were "unimaginable without the name
of Rostropovich" and reprinted a photograph of the musician at a
defining moment in the Soviet Union's history, playing the cello
beneath the Berlin wall in 1989.


Meanwhile liberal commentators brooded over the political changes
this vast country has seen since Yeltsin gave up his post to
President Vladimir Putin, some pointing out eerie similarities
between the way the state handled Yeltsin's death and the way
Soviet leaders were buried.


Columnist Yulia Latynina accused the country's now compliant
television channels of purposely delaying news of Yeltsin's death
while the Kremlin finalized how it should be relayed to the
public.


"The main television channels didn't know what to say until Putin
knew what to say. That would have been impossible under Yeltsin,"
Latynina said.


"It highlights the difference.... Under Yeltsin we were
democratic. Under Putin it's dictatorship."


Analyst Vladimir Pribylovsky of the Panorama research centre said
that with the passing of iconic figures of 20th century history,
nostalgia for the Soviet Union appeared unabated.


But this nostalgia is most widespread among a younger generation
ignorant of what Soviet life was actually like, he said.


"Those nostalgic for the Soviet Union are the young who didn't
see it ... They know that in the Soviet Union all the world was
afraid of Russia. They can't imagine that the freedoms they enjoy
weren't possible under the Soviet Union," he told AFP.


Pribylovsky said this week's rioting in the Estonian capital over
the removal of a Soviet-era war memorial would fuel Kremlin
efforts to show that, like in the Cold War, Russia faces a threat
from outside, this time from neighbours such as Estonia and from
the West in general.


The idea of such a threat is central to the Kremlin's strategy
for handling the transition from Putin to a successor at
elections next March, he said.


"They say we have enemies everywhere so we have to unite around
the Kremlin. We have to unite around the idea of danger,"
Pribylovsky said.


Meanwhile the Kommersant newspaper highlighted continued unrest
in Chechnya, where Yeltsin sent in troops to battle separatists
in 1994 at the start of two disastrous wars that have been
declared over by his successor Putin.


Reporting on the loss of a military helicopter on Friday, thought
by prosecutors to be the result of a rebel attack, the paper
published a table of 17 helicopter losses in Chechnya in the last
five years.


Only one attack, a helicopter shot down in 2002 in an attack that
left 127 people dead, resulted in a higher death toll than the
one on Friday, in which at least 18 people were killed.

