

Manchester United moved to the brink of reclaiming the
Premiership title after fighting back from two goals down to beat
Everton 4-2 on a day of rollercoaster drama on Saturday.


Wayne Rooney's 79th-minute strike and a stoppage time goal from
Chris Eagles capped a remarkable fightback and ensured that Sir
Alex Ferguson's side moved five points clear at the top of the
table after Chelsea were held to a 2-2 draw by Bolton at Stamford
Bridge.


The results mean that United, thanks to their superior goal
difference, only need to take four points from their remaining
three games to be sure of winning the title, and they could have
wrapped it up before they travel to Chelsea for their penultimate
match of the season on May 9.


If Sir Alex Ferguson's side beat local rivals Manchester City
next Saturday and Chelsea fail to beat Arsenal at the Emirates
Stadium the following day, United will be champions for the first
time since 2003.


A lacklustre United had looked doomed to defeat at Goodison Park
when Portuguese midfielder Manuel Fernandes hammered an stoppable
25-yarder past Edwin van der Sar, five minutes after half-time,
to double the lead established by Alan Stubbs's deflected free-
kick.


But a howler by Everton's stand-in goalkeeper, Iain Turner,
allowed United back into the contest.


The Scot, only playing because Tim Howard was prevented from
doing so under the terms of his season-long loan from United,
dropped a cross to leave John O'Shea with a simple finish.


That was the cue for Ferguson to throw Cristiano Ronaldo, who was
carrying an injury according to Ferguson and had started on the
bench with next week's Champions League semi-final second leg in
Milan in mind, into the fray.


The Portuguese winger had an immediate impact, rising to meet a
corner with a powerful downward header that former United player
Phil Neville sliced into his own net.


That set the stage for Rooney to effectively settle the contest
with 11 minutes left and, with news of the Chelsea result
filtering through, Eagles finished off a breakaway move with a
nicely curled finish for United's fourth.


At Stamford Bridge, Bolton grabbed the lead after the Chelsea
back four made a hash of dealing with a 19th-minute corner, the
ball falling to Lubomir Michalik, who lashed it home from close
range.


The champions were level inside three minutes, Salomon Kalou
heading in a Wayne Bridge cross, and went ahead when Kalou's
header ricocheted off the bar, a Bolton defender and finally
goalkeeper Jussi Jaaskelainen before ending up in the back of the
net.


Bolton refused to give up the fight however and, nine minutes
after the interval, Kevin Davies grabbed an equaliser with a
close-range header and Sam Allardyce's side held out for a draw
under the inevitable late barrage from Jose Mourinho's men.


"I'll give him (Allardyce) a hug and a kiss....no make that two
kisses!" beamed Ferguson as well he might.

