

Lorena Ochoa ended Annika Sorenstam's reign as LPGA Player of the
Year in 2006, now the Mexican star says she's ready to add a
first major title to her resume.


Ochoa will be in search of her first major at the two million-
dollar Kraft Nabisco Championship, which begins Thursday at the
Mission Hills Country Club.


In 2006, Ochoa ended Sorenstam's five-year run as Player of the
Year, winning six events and becoming the first LPGA player to
earn two million dollars in one season.


At the beginning of this season, the 25-year-old Mexican boldly
stated that her goal was to overtake Sorenstam as the world's
top-ranked player.


A victory this week in the first major of the season would make
that happen.


"I would love to win my first major and to become the world No.
1," said Ochoa, who warmed up with a victory last week at
Superstition Mountain, Arizona..


Ochoa's best finish in a major was here last year, when she lost
in a playoff to Australian Karrie Webb.


"I think what happened last year to me was a great experience,"
Ochoa said. "I learned a lot and I gave myself a chance to win my
first major in my professional career, and I didn't do it and I
didn't like the feeling of losing and you know, kind of giving
the tournament away after a great first round.


"So I'm here, I'm back, and I think winning last week gave me a
lot of confidence. I know my golf is at a good level."


But Sorenstam, despite her struggles last year, can't be
discounted from any major. She owns 10, and has won at least one
in each of the past six years.


"I want to win more majors," said the 36-year-old. "It's the big
tournaments that get the blood pumping and keep me excited."


But Sorenstam is certainly aware that Ochoa has narrowed the gap
in the world rankings.


"Lorena is playing superb golf," Sorenstam admitted. "But I am
very happy


with the way I am playing. I struggled a little with my swing
last year, but the difference already this season is huge."


Webb, who held the top ranking before Sorenstam's extended run,
won in dramatic fashion last year.


She holed a 116-yard shot for an eagle three at the 18th hole -
"the biggest of my career," she called it - before going on to
beat Ochoa in the playoff.


The win launched a terrific comeback season for the Australian
veteran, who won four more events and was in the hunt for Player
of the Year.


"I had done a lot of hard work over the off season, and felt that
I was pretty close," Webb said. "I think my biggest hurdle was
being a bit more comfortable on the course mentally, and
obviously that's where the win here really jump started my year.


"I think it allowed me to settle down and go out and trust the
hard work that I had done and put that into play rather than
doubting myself," added webb, who carried the momentum into 2007
with a victory in the Women's Open and Masters in her native
Australia.


England's Laura Davies needs a fifth major title to claim a place
in the LPGA Hall of Fame.


This is the only missing major for Davies, who has was the top
player in Europe for a record seventh time a year ago but has not
won on the US LPGA Tour since 2001.


"I'm feeling good and I would love to win here," said Davies, who
tied for 13th last week. "My driving has been great the last few
weeks and I should have finished even higher last week."

