

New Zealand batsman Hamish Marshall is hoping to find his feet
quickly after his surprise call-up to the Black Caps' World Cup
squad.


The 28-year-old is set to face the West Indies in the Kiwis'
opening Super Eight clash here Thursday just two days after his
arrival in the Caribbean as a replacement for Lou Vincent, who
had his wrist broken by New Zealand fast bowler Shane Bond while
batting in the nets last weekend.


"There's a bit of excitement. It's always nice to get to a new
country so I've been staying up reasonably late but I got to
sleep last night and got eight hours in," Marshall said.


"I had a schedule that (fitness trainer) Warren Frost had given
me - when to sleep and when not to - and I stuck to that.


"It's nice to be here, a little bit of a shock and I'm
disappointed for Lou. It's an opportunity for me and it's just
nice to be over here."


Marshall comes to the World Cup in good form, having made 766
runs in nine first-class matches at an average of 54.71 for New
Zealand four-day champions Northern Districts since being dropped
during the triangular one-day series in Australia.


"The batting's been going well for ND and playing some cricket in
a team that's winning is also pretty handy. To get some runs
myself has been good for my confidence."


Marshall added: "It's a quick turn around but it's part of the
job. I knew that was going to happen when I was coming over.
Mentally and physically there's not a lot you can do, just get as
much rest as possible and hydrate and eat well - that sort of
thing.


"Mentally the key is to get on track to play a game which is
pretty important for us at the start of the Super Eights."


Marshall is set to bat at number three with Peter Fulton taking
Vincent's place at the top of the innings alongside New Zealand
captain Stephen Fleming.


The Black Caps carry two points forward into the Super Eights
after winning all three of their matches in Group C, including a
victory first time out against fellow qualifiers England.


West Indies, who will be playing for a third straight day on
Thursday, lost their opening Super Eights clash against world
champions Australia on Wednesday by the huge margin of 103 runs
in a match spanning two days because of rain.

