

Sri Lanka wicket-keeper Kumara Sangakkara has told India they
they can learn a lot about cricket, life and happiness from their
island neighbours.


Sri Lanka beat India on their way to the World Cup second round
Super Eights.


India, meanwhile, crashed out and went home to face the
unrelenting fury of fans let down by a team many considered to be
potential World Cup winners in the Caribbean.


"I feel sorry for India's cricketers," said Sangakkara.


"They'll now face a torrent of criticism and abuse in the coming
weeks. Fanatical fans will no doubt be burning effigies. The huge
expectation places their players under enormous pressure. And
when that expectation is raised a degree or two, it can easily
have a crippling effect.


"In Sri Lanka, the public seem to have a more easy-going
perspective. Most Sri Lankans are passionate about sport,
especially cricket, but we also seem to understand that sport is
sport.


"I am not sure whether that more balanced attitude is the product
of two decades of civil war, or merely reflects the more happy-
go-lucky style of an island nation.


"The attitude of our fans makes it easier for us. We still get
our fair share of criticism. But our houses are not stoned when
we lose and we can still walk down the street without fearing for
our safety. I'm grateful for this and really don't envy the
situation of India and Pakistan's top cricketers."


Sangakkara admitted that the World Cup felt strange without India
and Pakistan.


India also lost to Bangladesh in their group games while Pakistan
suffered a humiliating defeat at the hands of part-timers
Ireland. They also lost to the West Indies.


"It leaves the tournament with a strange emptiness," Sangakkara
wrote in his www.cricinfo.com column.


"India's unbelievable passion for the game always ensures an
occasion whenever they take the field. One billion fans and a
clutch of high-paying sponsors are naturally bitterly
disappointed."


Sangakkara believes that the pressure on India contributed to the
demise of Rahul Dravid's team who succumbed to a 69-run defeat to
Sri Lanka in Trinidad which confirmed their early exit.


"There was no doubt in our minds that we would win the game. We
were completely focused," said Sangakkara.


"The same cannot be said about India's players. I thought our
body language told the story. We were up for it, positive and
very upbeat. India's players looked under pressure and their body
language betrayed their edginess."

