

The Chinese envoy in Washington on Wednesday called on the United
States to stop selling advanced weapons and sending "the wrong
signals" to Taiwan, warning that bilateral ties could suffer if
the Taiwan issue was not handled properly.


China "will never tolerate Taiwan's independence or allow anyone
to separate Taiwan from the motherland ... through any means,"
Chinese ambassador Zhou Wenzhong said in a rare speech in
Washington.


Addressing a forum of the Johns Hopkins University's School of
Advanced International Studies, Zhou said that the Taiwan issue
was "the most important and sensitive issue at the core of China-
US relations" and was "crucial" to the stability and development
of bilateral ties and cooperation.


He attacked Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian, charging that he was
becoming "more reckless and dangerous" by pursuing independence.


Zhou urged the United States to "honor and adhere" to its one-
China policy and "stop selling advanced weapons to Taiwan and
stop sending wrong signals to the Taiwan independence forces."


"We hope that the US side will work with China to oppose and
repulse any form of Taiwan independence activities by the Chen
Shui-bian authorities to maintain peace and stability in the
Taiwan strait and safeguard the shared strategic interests of
both our countries," Zhou said.


China considers Taiwan a part of its territory and has repeatedly
threatened to invade the island should it declare formal
independence.


Washington switched diplomatic recognition to Beijing in 1979,
but remains the leading arms supplier to Taiwan and is legally
obliged to offer the island a means of self-defense if its
security is threatened.


Earlier this month, the United States called Chen's pledge to
push for independence "unhelpful" and reiterated its stance
against independence for the island.


"The Taiwan questions bears on the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of China, involves China's core national interest and
touches upon the national sentiments of the Chinese people," Zhou
said.


He cited a 1995 visit by then Taiwan President Lee Teng-hui to
the United States which angered Beijing and led to the recall of
its US ambassador for four months.


"If we take a look at the history of our relations since
normalization, I think the conclusion is that whenever the
question of Taiwan is handled appropriately, the relations betwen
us made steady progress and whenever ... not handled
appropriately, the relations suffered setbacks," he said.


"So what I am trying to say is that the question needs to be
handled with great care, great caution and the United States has
a commitment to China ... and the essence of that is one China,"
he said.


"And we hope the United States government will honor its
commitment to China, not only in words but also in deeds," he
said.


Zhou fielded a range of questions, including China's military
build up and Beijing-led efforts to end North Korea nuclear
weapons drive.


He said the world had nothing to fear about the build up as China
maintained a strategy of "peaceful development" and "peaceful
coexistence" while beefing up its forces only to face any
"possible threats."


Furthermore, he said any additional defense spending was aimed at
making up for military cutbacks mostly in the 1980's, when China
concentrated on economic growth.

