

The case for one Guantanamo inmate, Australian David Hicks, was
settled in a plea deal this week, but  nearly 400 detainees
remain in legal limbo at the US- run prison with no end in sight.


It took years of legal defense work, public pressure and vigorous
lobbying from a US ally to resolve the Hicks case, who entered a
guilty plea to a watered-down charge of training with Al-Qaeda.


But hundreds of other prisoners face much longer odds in open-
ended incarceration at the US naval base in southeast Cuba.


The US administration, which once stridently defended the camp,
now says it wants to close the controversial prison eventually
and try up to 80 inmates for war crimes.


There has been little sign of serious movement though, and even
as the Hicks case drew to a close, the Defense Department said it
had transferred another terror suspect to Guantanamo, Abdul
Malik.


The Pentagon alleges Malik was involved in a 2002 car bombing in
Mombasa, Kenya, that killed 13. "Due to the significant threat
this terror suspect represents, he has been transferred to
Guantanamo," it said in a press release.


Another 14 top terror suspects, including alleged Al-Qaeda
mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed, were recently brought to
Guantanamo amid speculation they will be tried for war crimes
before the special military tribunals.


Plans to prosecute up to 80 suspects before the tribunals, or
commissions, seem ambitious, given the current pace.


The rules for the tribunals require trials to start within 120
days after a detainee is charged, and there is currently one
courtroom in existence in Guantanamo and limited staff.


"You do the math," said Colonel Morris Davis, the chief
prosecutor for the tribunals.


A request for a costly courthouse complex has been rejected by
new Defense Secretary Robert Gates, but Davis said he was hopeful
"additional facilities" would be built to allow for "a more brisk
pace."


A bigger problem are the vexing issues confronting a newly-
created system that rejects customary legal norms. At Hicks's
hearing on Monday, routine procedures turned into drawn out
debates.


"In a system whose rules are being created on the fly, every inch
of ground will be contested and that's the trade off for choosing
to abandon established systems with established precedents," said
Ben Wizner, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union.


"If the United States truly were to prosecute 60 to 80 Guantanamo
detainees in military commissions we would be here until 2027,"
Wizner told AFP.


Meanwhile, looming over the tribunals and the Guantanamo camp are
legal challenges working their way through US courts. The Bush
administration's first attempt to set up the tribunals was tossed
out by the US Supreme Court last June.


Bush's Republican allies then pushed a law through Congress
before that authorized the tribunals. The high court has yet to
rule on the legality of the legislation, which stripped all the
inmates of their habeas corpus rights to contest their detention.


The White House has admitted that the camp will likely still be
open by the end of Bush's term in 2009, leaving the legal
quagmire for his successor.

