

An Australian schoolgirl, a Chinese adulterer and several South
Korean celebrities have one thing in common: all have been
victims of cyberbullying, a modern version of mob cruelty.


The case of the girl was particularly horrific and led an
Australian state to ban the popular Internet film-sharing website
YouTube from school computers.


A group of schoolboys had filmed themselves sexually abusing and
degrading the girl and then uploaded the video onto YouTube.


The film showed a group of 12 youths surrounding the 17-year-old
girl, who has a mild mental disability, bullying her to perform
sex acts, urinating on her and setting her hair alight.


The education minister in southern Victoria state, where the
attack took place, said the state's 1,600 public schools would
block access to YouTube.


"The government has never tolerated bullying in schools and this
zero tolerance approach extends to the online world," said
Jacinta Allan.


The director of the Australian police's High Tech Crime Centre,
Kevin Zuccato, said at the time of the attack on the girl late
last year that it was a disturbing example of cyberbullying.


"Cyberbullying between children online is on the rise," he said.
"Social networking sites are also putting children at risk."


In South Korea, a law aimed at cracking down on Internet misuse
means cyberbullies will no longer be able to hide behind false
identities, South Korea's ministry of information said this
month.


When the new law takes effect in July, the "Internet real-name
system" will mean cyberbullies can be traced because major
portals and news media websites will be compelled to record the
real IDs of users when they post entries.


Portal operators will be obliged to disclose personal information
such as names and addresses of cyber attackers when their victims
want to sue them for libel or infringement upon privacy.


"South Korea is an Internet powerhouse and it is probably the
most wired country in the world. But sadly, the dark side is too
dark," ministry director Lee Ta- Hee told AFP.


"Victims have so far been unable to trace cyber attackers when
the attackers use false IDs," he said.


Cyberbullying has become a social issue in South Korea as
celebrities often fall victim to abuse and malicious attacks.


TV star Jeong Da-Bin and pop singer Yuni reportedly suffered
cyberbullying before they committed suicide earlier this year.


Many Internet users, taking advantage of anonymity, have made a
hobby of writing malicious messages on websites, accusing
celebrities of sex scandals or having plastic surgery, experts
said.


In China, a famous case of cyberbullying developed in April 2006,
when a man posted information about another man who allegedly had
an affair with his wife.


He identified his wife's suspected lover by his web name, which
led to a series of postings that revealed the man's name, phone
number and address.


Thousands of web postings denounced the lover, while Internet
users telephoned or showed up at his home to shout abuse at him
and his family.


Lawyers are now calling on the government to protect people from
having their personal information made public on the Internet.


Marilyn Campbell of Australia's Queensland University of
Technology, a child psychologist and expert on cyberbullying,
said a key element of the new form of an old abuse is that it
cannot be escaped.


With the use of the Internet, blogs, email and mobile phones with
text messaging, video and picture capability, cyberbullying can
be carried on "24/7," she said.


"It gives the bully a lot of power, being able to reach the
victim at any time and any place. So it transcends schoolyard
bullying," said Campbell.


"With cyberbullying you can't get away from it, at night as well
as during the day."


The use of modern technology such as mobile phones and email was
so ubiquitous and entrenched that victims of cyberbullying could
not simply switch off, she said.


"Kids have a social life online and a social life offline ... and
connect and network with each other just as much as they do face
to face if not even more.


"Because it's a seamless online and offline life it is no use
saying 'well, just turn the technology off'. It's not possible."


Campbell said it was well established that the consequences of
face-to-face bullying were increased anxiety and depression,
which sometimes led to suicide.


With cyberbullying's wider audiences and the fact that it cannot
be escaped even at home, the impact on the victims could be even
more drastic.


"The police can't intervene unless the law is broken" despite the
cruelty of the bullying of children, she said.


"If you continually get an email saying 'you're a loser, you
stink, we hate you', it is not a threat, they didn't say were
going to kill you."


But by posting a video of their bullying of the young girl on
YouTube, the teenage boys in Australia gave the police a chance
to act.


After a five month investigation, eight boys have been charged
with procuring sexual penetration by intimidation, manufacturing
child pornography, and assault.

