

Brad Hogg may have snared West Indies star batsman Brian Lara but
the engaging left-arm wrist spinner believes he was bowling
better before the World Cup started.


Windies skipper Lara was all that stood between Australia and
victory in their opening Super Eights clash and even while the
gifted left-hander was at the crease the odds were stacked firmly
against the World Cup hosts.


But any lingering hopes of a surprise victory here Wednesday
ended when Hogg had Lara lbw for 77 after the batsman missed a
full length delivery as he tried to dab the ball down behind
third man.


That left West Indies 156 for six in pursuit of 323 and there was
no way back from that position as world champions Australia
completed a 103-run victory, with Hogg taking three for 56 in his
full quota of 10 overs.


"It's always good to bowl against the best players in the world -
and Brian Lara's one of the best we've probably ever seen," the
36-year-old former postman told reporters after Wednesday's
victory.


"It gives you the best challenge you could ever face," added
Hogg, who in 99 one-day internationals has taken 123 wickets at
an average of just under 28 apiece.


Hogg went six one-day games for Australia without a wicket before
taking two for 28 in the five-wicket World Cup warm-up win
against England in St Vincent on March 9.


And they were two important wickets at that - Hogg removing the
innings top scorers in England captain Michael Vaughan (62) and
Ian Bell (56).


"I reckon I was bowling better before the tournament started than
I am now. But it's just funny how the wickets drop for you," said
Hogg, who has only played four Tests - the first two split by an
Australian record 78 games.


But before he got Lara out, Hogg saw the master batsman, the
leading run scorer in Test match history, hit him for a superb
six down the ground over long-off.


"He'd hit me over the fence a couple of times; then you beat him
in the flight and nearly get him caught," said the Western
Australian.


"That was a bit frustrating, and I was just making sure he wasn't
going to hit me over the fence again."

