

The United States sought to soothe Europeans' worries Wednesday
over plans to plant defense shields against Middle East missiles
on their soil, and promised Russia it is not a target.


"President Bush emphasized that missile defenses in Europe are
intended to protect against the evolving ballistic missile threat
from the Middle East -- a threat that we share in common with
Europe and Russia," White House spokesman Gordon Johndroe said.


His comment referred to a telephone conversation President George
W. Bush Bush held Wednesday with Russian President Vladimir
Putin.


Also in Washington, Assistant Secretary of State for European
Affairs Daniel Fried dismissed as "unfounded" what he said were
concerns in Europe that the defense project heralded a new US-
Russian arms race.


"The notion that somehow missile defense has to be seen as part
of an emerging arms race between the United States and Russia ...
is some of the odd commentary I heard from Europeans. It has no
relationship with reality," Fried told journalists here.


Washington wants to build a radar system in the Czech Republic
and put missiles in neighboring Poland to defend against what it
says are potential attacks from "rogue" states such as Iran.


Russia has strongly objected to the US plans to place components
of the system in the two countries and in one of the three South
Caucasus nations -- Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia -- claiming
the plans threaten Russian national security.


All the proposed host countries were part of Moscow's sphere of
influence in Soviet times.


Fried recently visited several European countries to explain the
shield project along with Henry Obering, the head of the US
missile defense agency.


"I found the European debate to be a mixture of genuine interest
in this new strategic challenge that Iran causes, genuine
interest in discussing how missile defense can play a stabilizing
role," Fried said.


"But (there are) some concerns which I found unfounded."


Obering said: "These are not offensive missiles, they do not even
carry warheads. There are no explosives on these missiles."


"Missile defense is part of an entire tool box that we try to use
to address the ballistic missile threat," he added. "We believe
missile defense fits into a spectrum that includes deterrence and
arms control measures."


The Kremlin earlier said Putin had spelt out Russia's concerns to
Bush over the missile plans during their telephone call.


A Kremlin statement said Putin had "noted with satisfaction" what
it described as Bush's assurance that he was ready to discuss the
issue in detail with the Russian side.


The Czech Republic and Poland, now NATO members, have insisted on
their right to make their own defense arrangements and Prague
said Wednesday it would begin formal negotiations with
Washington.


Public opinion in the Czech Republic and Poland generally opposes
the project. The system, which the US wants to be operational by
2011, has also prompted concern by Slovakia, France, Germany,
Austria and Spain.


Obering said he and Fried planned in the coming weeks to visit
Spain, Turkey, Greece and Hungary and then return for further
discussions on the matter with a NATO-Russia council.

