

Striker Nicklas Bendtner's late goal saw  Denmark poach a 1-0 win
over a weakened Germany in Wednesday night's friendly, but German
coach Joachim Loew insisted he was right to field six new caps.


Birmingham City striker Bendtner swept home a short cross for the
81st minute winner in Duisburg as Loew suffered his first defeat
in nine games since succeeding Jurgen Klinsmann as Germany coach
after last year's World Cup.


Loew's brave decision to blood six new caps - including Hanover
goalkeeper Robert Enke, Bayer Leverkusen midfielder Simon Rolfes
and VfB Stuttgart's Roberto Hilbert in the inexperienced starting
eleven - backfired.


"The defeat doesn't matter," insisted Loew. "We wanted to give a
chance to young players. This was just about finding out about
certain players.


"We just didn't have enough experience but we worked hard and
competed for every ball."


With only three survivors from the 2-1 Euro 2008 qualifying win
over the Czech Republic last Saturday, the experienced Denmark
side finished stronger than their opponents and deserved the win.


Having rested eight of his first-choice players, including
Chelsea midfielder Michael Ballack and Arsenal goalkeeper Jens
Lehmann, Loew could only watch on as his young side's finishing
let them down.


Thomas Hitzlsperger and Schalke 04 striker Kevin Kuranyi were the
only experienced campaigners in the side and Germany lacked the
tactical control and sharp finishing that had seen them win in
Prague.


Having scored both goals in Prague, Kuranyi had several half
chances to add to his 17 international strikes but his finishing
was wide of the mark this time.


His partner up front, Alemannia Aachen's Jan Schlaudraff, winning
only his third cap, also scuffed a handful of chances.


Denmark threatened when Jesper Groenkjaer clipped the bar with a
bullet header after 70 minutes.


The winning goal came in the 81st minute when Birmingham City
striker Nicklas Bendtner swept Groenkjaer's short pass from the
right past Enke.


Cologne striker Patrick Helmes, who came on for first cap to
replace Schaludraff after 78 minutes, was denied two late chances
to score, but it was not enough to stop the Danes.

