

Guinean leaders agreed Wednesday on the formation of a new
government in a bid to end months of unrest and political crisis
in the troubled west African nation, public television reported.


"The president (Lansana Conte) has signed a decree on the
proposition of Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate nominating new
members of the Guinean government," announced a journalist for
Radio-television Guinea (RTG).


The report went on to list the new government which contained
none of the previous ministers and was composed of 19 ministerial
portfolios but no state ministers or secretaries.


No political party is represented in the government and most of
the ministers are civilian technocrats unknown to the general
public.


A former senior economist at the International Monetary Fund,
Ousmane Dore, was handed the key position as finance minister,
while the foreign affairs portfolio went to lawyer Abdoul Kabele
Camara.


Two trade union figures Ousmane Souare and Amadou Diallo were
given charge respectively of the education and science
ministries.


Kouyate was inaugurated on March 1 to replace Eugene Camara whose
appointment last month sparked widespread unrest and a bloody
crackdown that claimed 113 lives.


His appointment, backed by a consensus from the political
parties, was in line with a deal secured by the powerful trade
unions and the Conakry authorities.


Camara held office for less than three weeks and had to be
removed after the protests which saw Conte put Guinea under
martial law for 12 days.


The normally compliant parliament unanimously voted down the
emergency measures 11 days later before crisis talks that were
successfully brokered by the Economic Community of West African
States (ECOWAS).


Kouyate will have more powers than his predecessors to run the
government of a nation ravaged by economic and political crisis.
Conte took power in 1984 and long ruled with an iron fist, but
suffers now from diabetes and memory lapses.


At 56-years-old, former UN diplomat Kouyate has been entrusted
with enlarged powers as the official head of the government, a
role previously held by the presidents after independence from
France in 1958.


His task will be to tackle serious economic and social problems
that fed anger among Guinea's 9.4 million people at official
corruption and erupted into a political showdown.


The global watchdog Transparency International last November
rated Guinea the most corrupt country in Africa.


Despite vast mineral resources, including bauxite, used to
produce aluminium, Guinea is rated among the world's 20 most
poverty-stricken countries.

