

The only member of the new Palestinian unity government to visit
Ottawa since the Canadian government cut aid and diplomatic ties
last year was shunned by government officials Wednesday.


Information Minister Mustafa al-Barghuti planned to meet with
members of Canada's three opposition parties.


But requests for talks with representatives of Prime Minister
Stephen Harper's Conservative government went unanswered, he told
reporters outside Parliament.


"No. We're not meeting with (Barghuti) today," Andre Lemay, a
spokesman for Foreign Minister Peter Mackay, later told AFP.
"And, our policy towards the Palestinian government has not
changed."


The new Palestinian unity government includes Hamas, regarded as
a terror group by Canada, and the Fatah movement of president
Mahmud Abbas. Barghuti described it as "the most representative
government in the Arab world."


He said he hoped its formation would "end the siege on the
Palestinian people" and open the door to "normal and very good
relations with Canada."


Mackay said in Parliament during Question Period: "We are
following developments very closely in the peace process."


"There is much progress that is being made," he said. "But until
such time as we see progress in the area of the Quartet
principles, which call for the recognition of Israel, which call
for the cessation of violence, which call for the road map to be
adhered to, we are not going to deal directly with a terrorist
organization, namely Hamas."


Canada was the first country to suspend aid to a Hamas-led
Palestinian government in March 2006, even ahead of the United
States, but maintains contact with Abbas.


"We hope that we will see the unity government in a more
forthright way express its respect and adherence to the road map,
to the principles in which the Quartet has clearly laid out,"
Mackay said.


Israel, meanwhile, has called on the international community to
continue its year-long financial boycott of the Palestinian
Authority.


It insists the new government has failed to recognize the Jewish
state, renounce violence or abide by past peace deals, the three
conditions laid down by the international community to accept and
resume aid to the cash-strapped government.


The Middle East Quartet -- the European Union, Russia, the United
Nations and the United States -- also reaffirmed on Wednesday
that the new Palestinian coalition government must renounce
violence, recognise Israel and accept past peace deals.


Until then, the Quartet would maintain an embargo on direct aid
to the Palestinian government, imposed a year ago when Hamas
formed a cabinet alone after winning parliamentary elections.

