

Canadians should fret about poor coastal security, said a report
Wednesday, which called Canada's Coast Guard "toothless" in
defending the world's longest national coastline.


"Canada's security perimeter features thousands of kilometers of
coastline and hundreds of harbors that for the most part go
unwatched" making it easier to for criminals or terrorists to
enter, said a report by the Standing Senate Committee on National
Security and Defense.


"One of Canada's most obvious vulnerabilities is the sheer size
of the perimeter," which is 243,000 kilometers (150,000 miles)
long.


The senators called Canada's Coast Guard "toothless" and lacking
the experience, the equipment or the mandate to defend the
country's shoreline.


New high-frequency radar touted by the military was proven
"unreliable" and even interferes with a licensed frequency, the
report said.


The Great Lakes are patrolled by just one federal police boat and
two Coast Guard vessels, leaving the bulk of the waterway's
surveillance to local police, the senators lamented.


And Prime Minister Stephen Harper's plan to boost Canada's Arctic
claims by sending more patrols to its northern frontier was
deemed a waste of the navy's limited resources.


"The committee finds it unfathomable that the government has
announced its intention to get the Canadian Navy much more
involved in Canada's northern waters, where little or no threat
exists to the security of Canadians," the report said.


"Sovereignty in the north is not going to be defended by force --
can anyone imagine Canadian guns firing on US or British vessels
going through the Northwest Passage?"


Ottawa and Washington are at odds over the famed Northwest
Passage and the resource-rich Beaufort Sea. Russia, Denmark and
Norway have also refuted Canada's Arctic claims.


The dispute has heightened as scientists say that global warming
could open the Northwest Passage to year-round cargo shipping by
2050, and open the north to oil and gas exploration.


"Disagreements over Canada's sovereignty in these waters are not
going to be settled through the use of gunboats. They will be
settled through the use of diplomacy or in the courts," the
report said.


Last week, the committee also warned that inept security at
Canada's 19 ports, which handle almost four million containers
each year, leave this country and its biggest trading partner,
the United States, vulnerable to terrorist attack.


They also found security at Canada's 89 major airports to be
dangerously lax, despite billions of dollars in upgrades since
the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.

