

The National Football League, stung by a series of embarrassing
incidents, is still working to formulate a conduct policy that
would hold players to higher standards.


As the league meetings concluded Wednesday, commissioner Roger
Goodell said he needed more time to formulate the policy, which
is expected to contain harsher and quicker disciplinary actions
against players who become embroiled in off- the-field scandals.


Goodell has discussed the issue with owners, coaches and general
managers over the last three days.


Now he plans to meet two of the league's most troubled players -
cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones of the Tennessee Titans and wide
receiver Chris Henry of the Cincinnati Bengals - before
announcing any new disciplinary measures.


"We'll do what we need to protect the integrity of the NFL.
That's our objective," Goodell said.


Jones has been arrested five times and still faces felony and
misdemeanor charges of obstructing police in Georgia from an
incident in February 2006.


On Monday, Las Vegas police recommended prosecutors file a felony
charge of coercion and misdemeanor charges of battery against
Jones, stemming from a February 19 shooting at a strip club which
left one victim with a severed spinal cord.


The Titans suspended Jones for one game during the 2006 season
due to a series of off-the-field incidents.


The Bengals have had nine players arrested on a variety of
charges ranging from drunk driving to weapons violations. Henry
has been arrested four times in the last three years.


Legal obstacles could dictate specifics of the new discipline
policy, such as punishment for players who might be involved in
cases that are not judicially resolved.


Penalties could include suspensions of up to one year, especially
for repeat offenders.


"I think it's at the forefront of what we need to do,"
Indianapolis Colts coach Tony Dungy said. "We need to address
this problem better."


One minor rule change was adopted on Wednesday - spiking the ball
to the ground on the field of play during a game will draw a
five-yard penalty.


Spikes in the end zone will still be allowed.

