

US lawmakers introduced legislation Wednesday that requires
insurance companies doing business in the United States to reveal
all Holocaust-era insurance policy holders.


The measure allows Holocaust victims and their descendants to sue
in US courts to settle claims, estimated at billions of dollars,
one of the bill's sponsors, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican
Florida representative, said in a statement.


A week ago an international commission created to make sure
insurance companies honored Holocaust-era claims wrapped up its
work, saying that more than 300 million dollars had been paid to
more than 48,000 claimants.


The ICHEIC, created in 1998, said it had rejected more than
43,000 claims for various reasons, including the failure of
claimants to prove the policy holders were dead.


But the US lawmakers said the International Commission on
Holocaust-Era Insurance Claims (ICHEIC) had failed to adequately
address the issue.


According to the legislation, experts estimate that insurers owe
between 17 and 200 billion dollars.


"The commission has failed to put forth sufficient effort in
making sure that names of policy holders are disclosed and that
claims are paid," said Ros- Lehtinen, the top Republican on the
House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee.


She said that less than five percent of the life insurance
policies estimated to have been sold to Jews prior to World War
II have been paid through ICHEIC.


The legislation is co-sponsored by Democratic Florida
Representative Robert Wexler and three Republican
representatives, Eric Cantor of Virginia, Mike Pence of Indiana
and Steve Chabot of Ohio.


The lawmakers want to force insurers which do business in the
United States to reveal the names of everyone who bought policies
during the Holocaust era, which they argue is the only way for
the survivors and relatives to prove the policy holders' claims.


The Nazi regime in Germany at the time did not issue death
certificates to prisoners brought to the death camps and police
documents were confiscated and destroyed, the US representatives
said.


"Although it has been more than 60 years since the end of WWII,
insurance companies and many of the European governments have
refused to disclose these documents, prolonging the injustice,"
said Ros-Lehtinen.


The legislation also allows claimants to sue the insurers to
settle the claims and sets fines for companies that refuse to
reveal the names of their Holocaust- era policy holders.


"It is incumbent on the United States and international community
to provide an open legal avenue to resolve outstanding cases,"
said Wexler, the chairman of the House Subcommittee on Europe.


The ICHEIC grouped representatives of several dozen European
insurance companies with US insurance regulators, Israeli
officials and Jewish groups.

