

Steve McClaren showed the strain of England's recent slump in
form when he stormed out of a press conference after less than
two minutes following his side's laboured 3-0 win over group E
minnows Andorra here on Wednesday.


The under-pressure England boss answered just two questions
before emotionally telling his critics in the press to "write
what you like" and marching off.


The brief time he did spend in the press room, McClaren used to
pay tribute to his players for the grit they had displayed in
grinding out a 3-0 win in difficult conditions against a backdrop
of almost non-stop abuse from more than 10,000 of their own
supporters.


"We came here to win the game, it was important to do that,"
McClaren said. "The lads got the job done. In difficult
conditions on and off pitch, they came through."


England looked to be heading for what would have been the most
embarrassing result in the country's history before Andorra's
resistance was finally pierced nine minutes after the interval by
the first of two Steven Gerrard goals.


A last minute effort by substitute David Nugent put a more
positive gloss on the final scoreline and McClaren said he
remained confident that his side could go on to reach next year's
finals in Austria and Switzerland.


"I said to them at half-time they had to show real guts and
character to go through all that and I think they did that, each
and every one of them," McClaren added.


"I'm proud of the players. I think Stevie G really stepped
forward and we have won the game and we move on.


"It puts us in a better position in the group. We have got to
make sure we beat Estonia (in June) and next season it is down to
us. It is in our hands."


Unprompted, McClaren then began to talk about his own position,
widely seen as being under threat as a result of a run of results
which have left England in serious danger of failing to qualify
for a major tournament for the first time since the 1994 World
Cup.


"I've got fantastic support this week from players, staff, from
everybody involved with the squad," he said. "There is a great
determination to go and do the job.


"There was no concern for me, for myself. I thought it was very,
very difficult for the players. I said at half-time this is when
we have to stick together, this is when we have to step forward
and show real guts and character. And the players did that. Quite
a few of them have grown up a lot tonight.


"Nothing concerns me outside. What you write, what people say. It
matters inside. There is a great determination now to prove a lot
of people wrong.


"Gentleman, if you want to write whatever you want to write, you
can write it because that is all I have got to say."

