

Two more people have died in Indonesia after testing positive for
bird flu, the country's health ministry said Thursday.


One person died on Sumatra island and the other in an army
hospital in the capital Jakarta, said Runizar Ruesin, the head of
the ministry's bird flu information centre.


"They tested positive in the first test," he said, adding a
second was being conducted to confirm initial results.


Positive results from two Indonesian laboratories are required
before the World Health Organisation (WHO) includes the cases in
its records.


The fatalities, if confirmed, would take the country's death toll
from the virus to 71, the world's highest.


Indonesia has already announced three confirmed bird flu deaths
since Saturday, which raised the official toll to 69 dead out of
89 cases. The country had hoped to eradicate human infections
this year.


Most human cases have occurred after people have come in contact
with sick birds. The government has banned the popular practice
of keeping chickens in backyards in the capital Jakarta in a bid
to hinder the spread of the virus.


Earlier this week Indonesia lifted a ban on sharing bird flu
samples with the WHO for tests said to be key to tracking and
tackling the disease.


It had stopped sending samples over concerns drug firms would end
up using them to develop costly vaccines that would be beyond the
budgets of poorer countries.


Firms now need permission from a country to gain access to its
virus samples under a deal agreed Tuesday with the WHO after two
days of international talks in Jakarta.


Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono later said the
world should treat rich and poor countries equally in its attempt
to avoid a catastrophic human pandemic from bird flu.


The response to bird flu should put "equality between countries"
at its centre because if one country was at risk, then all were,
he said.


The WHO said as of Wednesday that the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu has infected 284 people and killed 169 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since the end of 2003.


The figure does not include the latest deaths in Indonesia, or
the death of a 16 -year-old Chinese boy, announced by authorities
in Beijing on Thursday.


Scientists worry the virus could mutate into a form easily spread
among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to
kill millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.

