

A Ukrainian swimmer caught on camera in an ugly scuffle with her
father refused to testify against him Thursday, forcing a court
to drop an order that prevented him contacting her.


Mikhaylo Zubkov, 38, was filmed pushing and shoving Kateryna
Zubkova, 18, in a marshalling area at Rod Laver Arena on Tuesday
night.


The pair appeared in Melbourne Magistrates' Court where Victorian
state police were seeking to extend an intervention order that
stopped Zubkov from going within 200 metres of his daughter.


Zubkov's lawyer Florian Andrighetto told the court the incident
was a personal and delicate family matter and his client was
remorseful.


Through an interpreter, Zubkov, who is also his daughter's coach,
gave an undertaking that he would not engage in similar conduct
in the future.


Given that Kateryna, a 2004 European championship medallist and
holder of eight Ukrainian national titles, refused to enter the
witness box magistrate Dan Muling ruled there was not enough
evidence to grant the extension.


Andrighetto said his client was not seeking fame or fortune
through his daughter and the incident was not some "bizarre
training method" to spur her on.


After the hearing the father and daughter left the court
together.


In an interview with the Herald Sun newspaper, Kateryna took some
of the blame for the exchange of blows, saying it was a dispute
over her boyfriend and that she had forgiven her father.


"It's my fault too. I disobeyed him and he got upset," she said.
"He would never hurt me. He's a wonderful father. He loves me. He
worries about me a lot.


"He has never touched me before. He has never raised a hand to
me.


Zubkov told the same newspaper he was sorry.


"It was a very emotional situation. I touched a very sensitive
issue and emotions ran high," he said.


"Unfortunately it was on camera. But shortly after that
everything was all right. We talked everything through without
any problem.


"There has never been violence, they can ask Kateryna about it.
It was out of the ordinary. I love her and this can happen in any
family."


World swimming's governing body FINA on Wednesday called Zubkov's
behaviour "unacceptable" and revoked his championship
accreditation.


He faces a life ban from the sport with FINA to hold a
disciplinary hearing to decide his fate.

