

South Korean and US negotiators met Thursday for a fourth day of
tough talks on a free trade agreement as hopes rose that a deal
can be reached by a weekend deadline.


Disputes over farm trade are the biggest obstacle to an agreement
which, according to some studies, could increase two-way trade by
20 percent over last year's 74 billion dollar figure.


"I think both sides can narrow differences and find common
ground," South Korea's Assistant Agriculture Minister Min Dong-
Seok told reporters late Wednesday.


"Both sides clearly share a view that a deal should be reached in
time."


Min was speaking after a separate meeting with his US
agricultural negotiating partner Richard Crowder.


Yonhap news agency said their talks were to wind up Thursday
morning, with the results forwarded to the delegation chiefs --
South Korean Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong and Deputy US Trade
Representative Karan Bhatia.


The agency said an outline "package deal" was expected to be
completed by Thursday, on the basis of which Kim and Bhatia would
attempt a "give-and-take" session linking fewer than 10
outstanding issues.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, who has pushed hard for a deal despite
mass street protests and opposition from political allies, hinted
there would be a compromise.


A deal "is supposed to be mutually satisfactory. Otherwise, the
deal can't be concluded," he said late Wednesday during a visit
to Qatar.


Roh said he will decide whether to sign the deal after he returns
home Friday. "As head of state, I myself will make the final
decision."


South Korea rose from post-war poverty to become the world's 11th
largest economy by protecting key industries but now faces
growing Chinese competition.


Its industries and service sector will be reinvigorated by the
competition which a free trade deal would bring, Roh believes.


"South Korea has never been given serious external shocks due to
market opening. The pace of South Korea's opening has been
moderate thus far," he said in Qatar.


The deadline for agreement is 7:00 am Saturday Korean time, the
last working day of the week in Washington.


The deal must be submitted to Congress next Monday for a 90-day
review if it is to be passed while US President George W. Bush
still has authority to "fast- track" trade legislation.


South Korea says the talks could fail if the US presses it
further to open up the local rice market while the US side wants
more access for its lucrative beef exports.


Seoul last year lifted a three-year ban imposed over fears of mad
cow disease and agreed to accept US boneless beef. But it then
rejected three shipments after discovering tiny bone fragments in
what the US called a pretext to protect Korean farmers.


The US also wants Korea to cut its 40 percent tariff on beef as
well as tariffs on other farm goods. The auto trade in which
South Korea runs a huge surplus, textiles, anti-dumping remedies
and pharmaceuticals are also among the main isses.


Korean farmers, other workers and activists say an agreement
opening the way for cheaper imports would threaten their jobs. On
Wednesday nearly 2,000 people attended a candlelight vigil in
central Seoul.


Hundreds of police are guarding the luxury hilltop hotel where
the talks are taking place but the number of protesters has
generally been smaller than in previous demonstrations.

