

Matthew Hayden knows better than most that is not easy to play
for Australia - and the record-breaking opening batsman wouldn't
have it any other way.


The 35-year-old left-hander achieved the highest score by an
Australian at the World Cup in making 158 against the West Indies
as the reigning champions began the Super Eight stage of the
tournament with a thumping 103-run win over the hosts in a match
split over two days because of rain.


Early in his career, Hayden had to battle past the likes of
Matthew Elliott and Michael Slater for a Test spot and, more
recently, he was dropped from the one- day side for the best part
of a year after the 2005 tour of England with Phil Jaques, Shane
Watson and Simon Katich all given a run instead.


But he forced his way back in and last month scored an Australian
one-day record 181 not out against New Zealand in Hamilton - a
match where his toe was broken by fast bowler Mark Gillespie.


"I've had a lot of commitment and passion, to get back into the
one-day side," said Hayden, whose innings topped Queensland pal
Andrew Symonds's previous Australian tournament best of 143 not
out against Pakistan in Johannesburg four years ago.


"In particular, to represent Australia at the World Cup is an
enormous privilege and honour," Hayden, a World Cup winner in
2003, added.


"It's a special side to be a part of - and it's never meant to be
an easy thing to play for Australia."


"There are guys who aren't here right now - and one or two who
are with us - who deserve the right to be playing. That's the way
the Australia cricket team keeps its edge and its intensity.


"I'm sure someone like Brad Hodge has a brilliant career ahead of
him but he just can't get in right now.


"You have to be very determined to go out there and prove to the
side and the people that you are good enough to play," said the
hard-hitting Hayden, who in Australia's preceding 83-run win
against South Africa also made a century.


"I said when I got dropped a couple of years back that I didn't
feel I was ready to let the (one-day) game go - that world-class
players play both forms of the game. I'm just very happy that
it's coming off right now."

