

Republicans in Congress are trying to bar former vice president
Al Gore's anti- global warming mega-concert from its planned
venue on the steps of the US Capitol building.


Gore is planning a single-day, series of free "Live Earth"
concerts on seven continents, with the goal of calling attention
to the climate change crisis.


The US concert, scheduled for the steps of the Capitol on July 7,
2007, has drawn an A-list slate of pop performers, including the
Police, Kanye West, Faith Hill, Bon Jovi and the Red Hot Chili
Peppers.


But some Republicans have balked over the cost of providing
police for the event, while others insist that the concert is a
partisan Democratic event and as such, not allowed on Capitol
grounds.


One outspoken opponent of the concert is Senator James Inhofe, a
longtime debunker of cataclysmic climate change, which he has
derided as a "hoax."


"Senator Inhofe objects to having any events on the Capitol
grounds that are either highly partisan or politically
controversial -- and the proposed Gore concert is both," said his
spokesman Marc Morano.


Inhofe and Gore locked horns last week at a standing room only
Senate hearing on global warming.


Morano said formal moves to block the concert have been lodged by
Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.


Congressional officials said that Democratic Majority Leader
Harry Reid and Republican Senator Olympia Snowe -- who earlier
this month introduced a Senate resolution to allow Gore to stage
his anti-climate change concert -- insist the event is non-
partisan, and are working with Republicans to break the impasse.


Gore, perhaps the best-known environmentalist in the United
States, is the author of a bestselling book on global warming "An
Inconvenient Truth," which was made into the blockbuster
documentary which won a pair of Oscars last month.


He also recently received a nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize
for his efforts to draw attention to the ravages of global
climate change.

