

The United States on Wednesday backed calls for the freeing of 15
British navy personnel seized by Iran but said it did not affect
its plan for high-level talks with Tehran on Iraq.


"The outcome that we need to see is for the British sailors to be
released and released unconditionally," said Tom Casey, a US
State Department spokesman.


"We want to see (the dispute) resolved peacefully and we want to
see it resolved by the Iranians doing the right thing which is
letting these guys go."


President George W. Bush also told British Prime Minister Tony
Blair in a secure video conference call that he "fully backs"
him, a White House spokeswoman said.


However, the State Department's Casey said the dispute had not
affected plans for a ministerial meeting of the US with Iran and
Syria to discuss the volatile security situation in Iraq.


"As far as I know, there is no rethinking of that idea and we are
looking at moving ahead with it as soon as the Iraqis are ready
to do so," Casey said.


"I think what our hope would be is that these sailors would be
released before such an event took place."


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said on Tuesday that recent
regional talks in Baghdad "were a good start toward improved
cooperation, and our government is open to higher-level
exchanges" with Tehran.


The outgoing US ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, held a
brief exchange with an Iranian official on the sidelines of the
regional security talks in Baghdad on March 10.


Washington still refuses bilateral ties with Iran, however, and
has not had diplomatic links with it for 27 years, following the
country's 1979 Islamic Revolution.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has said she is ready to
join her Iranian and Syrian counterparts for talks on Iraq,
wracked by insurgent violence following the US-led invasion in
2003. No date for talks has been set.


The capture of the British navy personnel could complicate bids
to convene talks, since Britain would be expected to attend as a
permanent member of the UN Security Council. But on Wednesday it
froze official contact with Iran, except for measures to free the
captives.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair told parliament: "It is now
time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international pressure" on
Tehran. Britain is in contact with "all our key allies" in order
to "step up the pressure," he said.


Britain insists the 15 were in Iraqi waters conducting "routine"
anti-smuggling operations when they were captured at gunpoint on
Friday in the northern part of the Gulf which stretches alongside
Iran's southern coast.


A State Department official said the US was reacting cautiously
on the incident involving Britain, its main ally in its
operations in Iraq, so as not to complicate the dispute.


"In terms of our largely difficult relations with the Iranians,
we want to make sure that what we do is supportive of the British
effort and does not complicate it," said the official, who asked
not to be named.


He said the talks with Iran on Iraq had been postponed because
parties had not settled on a date -- not because of the naval
incident.


"For the moment, our assumption is that (the talks) will happen,
and it would happen some time in April," he said, adding that the
talks would likely be held after Easter, April 8.


Two US aircraft carrier battle strike groups, meanwhile, carried
out Wednesday a second day of war games in the Gulf with fighter
aircraft and warships, but the US denied this was a response to
seizure of the British naval personnel.


A US navy official said the decision of where and when to carry
out the war games was taken after the capture. But White House
deputy spokeswoman Dana Perino said they had been planned for
some time and did not reflect an escalation in tensions.

