

The stunning exits of Pakistan and India from cricket's World Cup
has left one of the game's biggest sponsors reviewing its future
in the sport and sent the advertising world into a tailspin.


Giants such as Pepsi have had to rethink marketing campaigns
centred around the teams, Indian advertisers are demanding cut-
price television spots and in Pakistan the ad industry reckons
losses will run into millions of dollars.


"We are sunk," said Delhi-based advertising executive Rajmohan
Singh.


"No one wants to advertise any more. Is there a World Cup going
on? Where? My figures don't show that."


South Korea's LG Electronics said it was unsure if it would
remain a global partner of the International Cricket Council
(ICC) when sponsorship contracts are renegotiated later this
year.


LG, which jumped on the cricket bandwagon seven years ago to
boost sales in the lucrative Indian market, said its priorities
had changed.


"Our requirements were different when we signed up with cricket
seven years ago," said LG's Indian spokesman Girish Rao.


"Today, we have lot of visibility being the number two brand in
the Indian market. But a final decision will be taken by our
parent company."


India, the 1983 World Cup winners and 2003 finalists, failed to
advance to the 2007 version's Super Eight round after losing two
of their three games in the preliminary stage.


Pakistan, winners in 1992, went out at the hands of minnows
Ireland in one of the sport's biggest shocks.


Five ICC sponsors -- LG, Pepsi, Hutch, Hero Honda and Indian Oil
-- focus their cricket advertising on India, where passion for
the sport is a sponsors' dream.


The ICC has not revealed its new partners after selling global
media rights for the next eight years to the Singapore-based
ESPN-Star television network for an estimated 1.1 billion
dollars.


The deal takes effect after this World Cup and covers 18 ICC
tournaments, including the World Cup in 2011 in South Asia and in
2015 in Australia and New Zealand.


Cricket business insiders say that ESPN-Star would struggle to
recover the investment if sponsors such as LG withdrew.


Sony Entertainment Television, which paid a reported 300 million
dollars to beam the 2007 World Cup and other ICC tournaments to
India over the past seven years, did not even bid for the new
rights.


"We did not think it would have been a profitable deal," said its
head Kunal Dasgupta, who is already struggling to prevent
advertisers from pulling out of this World Cup.


The Indian Broadcasting Foundation, which protects the interests
of the TV networks, had to step in when advertisers asked Sony
Entertainment Television to renegotiate rates because of falling
viewing figures as India and Pakistan returned home.


"It is a commercial contract and has to be honoured," a
foundation official, Naresh Chahal, said.


"When India reached the final in 2003, did Sony ask advertisers
to pay a higher amount on sealed deals?"


Sony is braced for losses as it charged 6,000 dollars for a
10-second spot for India matches and only 2,200 dollars for games
not featuring India.


US soft drinks giant Pepsi, like many other comapnies, has
withdrawn costly World Cup-specific advertisements targeting the
Indian team.


"In light of India's performance there will be some short-term
changes in advertising," said Pepsi India's marketing director
Punita Lal. "But we have a long-term commitment with cricket
which will continue."


The head of the Pakistan Advertising Association, Masood Hashmi,
estimated losses there at "billions of Pakistani rupees, maybe
two to three billion" (33 million to 50 million dollars).


"Advertising companies have launched schemes featuring Pakistani
players worth millions of rupees but the big drop in viewership
of the World Cup has had a negative impact," Hashmi added.


Many campaigns and commercials have had to be redesigned, while
some on TV channels and in the print media have been stopped
outright, he said.


"It's certainly a loss for us as some companies have withdrawn
campaigns from programmes because they featured players like
Inzamam-ul-Haq or Shahid Afridi," said Ather Viqar Azeem, a
producer at private HUM television.


However, Yusuf Baig Mirza, head of the private Pakistani sports
channel GEO Super, said it had not lost as many viewers as
feared.


"People even watched Bangladesh play Bermuda because they liked
to see India knocked out," he added. "Similarly, they would like
to see an Asian team like Sri Lanka win the Cup."

