

Three people were killed and a 14-year-old girl was missing after
a high-speed ferry smashed into a motor cruiser beneath
Australia's iconic Sydney Harbour Bridge, police said Thursday.


Authorities said the 10-metre (33-foot) wooden pleasure craft
broke apart when the catamaran hit it late Wednesday -- the
second fatal accident this year involving the ferries that carry
thousands of tourists around the harbour.


"It was a catastrophic impact because this wooden cruiser appears
to have just disintegrated and the people were flung into the
water," Sydney Ferries chief Geoff Smith told reporters.


The cruiser was carrying 12 people from the world of Australian
ice skating, including a former Olympian, who were enjoying a
late-night function in the shadow of the famous Harbour Bridge
after a conference.


Two ferries, a police boat and a naval patrol boat arrived on the
scene almost immediately and helped pluck survivors from the
water.


Clive Marshall, a passenger on one of the ferries helping in the
rescue, said it was a chaotic scene.


"There were people in the water. There was a lot of wreckage,
lots of shouting, mayhem, terrible sight," he told ABC radio.


Two men and a woman, all aged in their 40s, died at the scene and
a 14-year-old girl who was thrown into the water was still
missing Thursday afternoon as police helicopters, boats and
divers scoured the harbour.


Ambulance officers said the remaining eight passengers were all
hospitalised and two of them were in a serious condition. One
woman, named in media reports as former Olympic figure skater Liz
Cain, had a leg amputated.


The accident was the 14th since 2004 involving the 28 state-owned
ferries that ply Sydney Harbour.


The ferries carry more than 13 million passengers a year,
including commuters and tourists seeking a waterside view of
attractions such as the Sydney Opera House.


In January, another catamaran ferry ran into a small fishing
boat. A fisherman injured in the crash died in hospital eight
days later.


Smith admitted there were question marks over the ferry service's
safety record but insisted it was improving.


"The record was poor but it's got much better through a sustained
effort," he said.


"I don't accept that we have a worsening safety record, what we
have is one that is improving.


"But unfortunately we have these couple of incidents these last
couple of months, yet to be determined as to what was the cause,
and that unfortunately has blighted what would be a pretty good
record."


Media reports named two of the dead as ice skating judges Alan
Blinn and Simone Moore and the missing teenager as skater Morgan
Innes.


The stricken ferry and remains of the cruiser were retrieved and
will be examined by forensic experts.

