

New Zealand's annual current account deficit fell slightly in the
December quarter but a continuing foreign borrowing binge will
likely hold back further gains, economists said Thursday.


The deficit for the year to December was 14.4 billion dollars, or
nine percent of gross domestic product (GDP), Statistics New
Zealand said.


This was down from the 14.5-billion-dollar deficit -- which
amounted to 9.2 percent of GDP -- in the year to September.


The current account is the broadest measure of trade, services
and investment flows into and out of the country.


New Zealand's current account deficit measured as a proportion of
GDP is one of the highest in the developed world.


The current account deficit for the December quarter was 3.93
billion dollars, down from 4.67 billion dollars in the September
quarter.


A 20 percent fall in the price of petroleum products in the
fourth quarter, following six straight quarters of price
increases, helped drive down the value of imports, Statistics New
Zealand said.


But the investment income deficit for the December quarter rose
381 million dollars from the September quarter to 3.13 billion
dollars due to the flow of interest and profits overseas.


The overall international investment balance reached a deficit of
143.2 billion dollars, up 4.2 percent from the September quarter,
and representing 89 percent of GDP.


Economists and the government pointed to the investment deficit
as holding back any improvement in New Zealand's financial
position with the rest of the world.


Finance Minister Michael Cullen said the deficit was too high
despite the slight improvement in the December quarter.


"The worry is that the international investment balance, which
includes the cost of our borrowings overseas is still rising
because we as a nation are still willing to take on more debt,
much of it in the household sector," Cullen said.


He said New Zealanders were saving too little. He pointed to
Australia's investment deficit to GDP of 62 percent, much lower
than the 89 percent in New Zealand.


The worsening investment position is being fueled by foreign
purchases of New Zealand assets, the resulting outflow of profits
and the borrowing of foreign money to fund mortgages and other
spending.


ASB treasury economist Daniel Wills said the foreign debt binge
would continue to hold back any significant improvement in the
current account deficit.


Westpac Bank chief economist Brendan O'Donovan, agreed that the
investment income deficit is likely to widen in coming quarters.


"The number of assets in foreign ownership is only going to
increase -- New Zealanders are borrowing from overseas or hocking
off assets in order to fund excess spending," he said.

