

From television revealing that spaghetti grows on trees to
advertisements for the left-handed burger, the tradition of April
Fool's Day stories in the media has a weird and wonderful
history.


Here are 10 of the top April Fool's Day pranks ever pulled off,
as judged by the San Diego-based Museum of Hoaxes for their
notoriety, absurdity, and number of people duped.


-- In 1957, a BBC television show announced that thanks to a mild
winter and the virtual elimination of the spaghetti weevil, Swiss
farmers were enjoying a bumper spaghetti crop. Footage of Swiss
farmers pulling strands of spaghetti from trees prompted a
barrage of calls from people wanting to know how to grow their
own spaghetti at home.


-- In 1985, Sports Illustrated magazine published a story that a
rookie baseball pitcher who could reportedly throw a ball at 270
kilometers per hour (168 miles per hour) was set to join the New
York Mets. Finch was said to have mastered his skill -- pitching
significantly faster than anyone else has ever managed -- in a
Tibetan monastery. Mets fans' celebrations were short-lived.


-- Sweden in 1962 had only one television channel, which
broadcast in black and white. The station's technical expert
appeared on the news to announce that thanks to a newly developed
technology, viewers could convert their existing sets to receive
color pictures by pulling a nylon stocking over the screen. In
fact, they had to wait until 1970.


-- In 1996, American fast-food chain Taco Bell announced that it
had bought Philadelphia's Liberty Bell, a historic symbol of
American independence, from the federal government and was
renaming it the Taco Liberty Bell.


Outraged citizens called to express their anger before Taco Bell
revealed the hoax. Then-White House press secretary Mike McCurry
was asked about the sale and said the Lincoln Memorial in
Washington had also been sold and was to be renamed the Ford
Lincoln Mercury Memorial after the automotive giant.


-- In 1977, British newspaper The Guardian published a seven-page
supplement for the 10th anniversary of San Serriffe, a small
republic located in the Indian Ocean consisting of several
semicolon-shaped islands. A series of articles described the
geography and culture of the two main islands, named Upper Caisse
and Lower Caisse.


-- In 1992, US National Public Radio announced that Richard Nixon
was running for president again. His new campaign slogan was, "I
didn't do anything wrong, and I won't do it again." They even had
clips of Nixon announcing his candidacy. Listeners flooded the
show with calls expressing their outrage. Nixon's voice actually
turned out to be that of impersonator Rich Little.


-- In 1998, a newsletter titled New Mexicans for Science and
Reason carried an article that the state of Alabama had voted to
change the value of pi from 3.14159 to the "Biblical value" of
3.0.


-- Burger King, another American fast-food chain, published a
full-page advertisement in USA Today in 1998 announcing the
introduction of the "Left- Handed Whopper," specially designed
for the 32 million left-handed Americans. According to the
advertisement, the new burger included the same ingredients as
the original, but the condiments were rotated 180 degrees. The
chain said it received thousands of requests for the new burger,
as well as orders for the original "right-handed" version.


-- Discover Magazine announced in 1995 that a highly respected
biologist, Aprile Pazzo (Italian for April Fool), had discovered
a new species in Antarctica: the hotheaded naked ice borer. The
creatures were described as having bony plates on their heads
that became burning hot, allowing the animals to bore through ice
at high speed -- a technique they used to hunt penguins.


-- Noted British astronomer Patrick Moore announced on the radio
in 1976 that at 9:47 am, a once-in-a-lifetime astronomical event,
in which Pluto would pass behind Jupiter, would cause a
gravitational alignment that would reduce the Earth's gravity.
Moore told listeners that if they jumped in the air at the exact
moment of the planetary alignment, they would experience a
floating sensation. Hundreds of people called in to report
feeling the sensation.

