

A Greenpeace vessel on a mission to raise sympathy in Japan for
whales was drifting Thursday for the second day at the mouth of
Tokyo Bay after being prevented from docking.


Activists aboard the Dutch-flagged "Esperanza" were working with
Dutch authorities to resolve the standoff with Japan, which has
branded the environmentalists as "terrorists."


The people on the Esperanza are part of a Greenpeace campaign
hoping to build opposition in Japan to whaling, which enrages
Western nations. Japan carries out a controversial whale hunt in
the Antarctic Ocean every year.


"We have made very clear that we are still determined to do what
we originally intended and to talk to people and to meet people.
We're not going to go away," Greenpeace spokeswoman Sara Holden
said by telephone from aboard the vessel.


The Esperanza was effectively banned Wednesday after its agent --
which handles the paperwork required to dock in the busy port --
backed out under pressure from the sailors' union.


Greenpeace has so far failed to arrange a meeting with union
representatives, Holden said.


The Dutch embassy in Tokyo said it was providing the same
consular support it would to any Dutch nationals.


"We've provided some consular support to this ship and we are
just waiting to hear what will happen," an embassy official said.


Greenpeace members who arrived earlier in Japan, along with local
members of the group, were also to meet later Thursday with the
Social Democratic Party, a small left-leaning opposition party,
Holden and a party official said.


Japan each year sends a fleet to the Antarctic to hunt whales,
using a loophole in a global ban on whaling that allows killing
the giant mammals for scientific research.


Japan says whale meat is part of its culture and is lobbying for
an outright resumption of commercial whaling.


But Japan suffered a humiliation this year when a fire broke out
on its mother ship, leaving a crew member dead and forcing it to
cut short the expedition after killing just over half the
intended catch of up to 860 whales.


Greenpeace offered to assist the Nisshin Maru as a goodwill
gesture, but Japan denies accepting any help.

