

Southern African leaders were set to meet Thursday with
Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe to discuss the deepening
crisis in his country.


The emergency meeting of the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), hosted by Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete,
began on Wednesday as Zimbabwean police raided the headquarters
of the main opposition party.


The 14-nation SADC is a regional bloc promoting development and
democracy in the region.


Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) officials said that party
leader Morgan Tsvangirai was among a group arrested by the
security forces, a claim that police denied.


The raids on Tuesday and Wednesday during which 35 people were
arrested -- part of an investigation into several recent
firebombings which the police have blamed on the MDC -- have
increased pressure on regional leaders.


While Western nations have sharply condemned Mugabe since
opposition leaders were arrested and then assaulted ahead of a
planned anti-government rally earlier this month, SADC countries
have been more muted in their response, even though they have
most to lose from the fallout.


Apart from the political unrest, an inflation rate of 1,730
percent and unemployment of 80 percent has led around three
million Zimbabweans to emigrate and caused the virtual collapse
of an important market for the region.


Tanzanian officials said SADC chiefs would try to convince Mugabe
to meet the opposition MDC leaders in a bid to dissolve mounting
acrimony that threatens the stability of the African nation.


Amnesty International called on regional governments to put
pressure on Mugabe's regime to end its harassment and
intimidation of opposition activists.


"African leaders have allowed the government of Zimbabwe to
operate outside the international human rights framework by
deciding to adopt a strategy of quiet diplomacy -- a tactic that
in this case has left the victims of human rights violations to
suffer without protection," said Kolawole Olaniyan, the director
of Amnesty's Africa programme.


"SADC leaders meeting in Tanzania must now send an unequivocal
message to the government of Zimbabwe that human rights
violations in that country will no longer be tolerated."


US State Department spokesman Tom Casey said the United States
"is deeply concerned about the detention of Morgan Tsvangirai ...
and other opposition officials today at the MDC's headquarters in
Harare."


Southern African regional leaders may go further and tell Mugabe
he must retire when his term expires next year, a former Mugabe
ally told Britain's The Guardian newspaper on Wednesday.


"They will remind Mugabe that he told them he would retire at the
end of this term in 2008. They will tell him he must do that,"
said Jonathan Moyo, an information minister until he fell out
with Mugabe in 2005.


Mugabe's ruling ZANU-PF party plans to announce on Friday, after
the president's return from Dar es Salaam, whether it will
support extending his term until 2010 to hold simultaneous
presidential and parliamentary elections.


The SADC summit was also expected to address the situation in the
Democratic Republic of Congo after deadly clashes last week,
which claimed between 200-500 lives, between the military and
militia loyal to former vice president and ex- rebel chief Jean
Pierre Bemba, according to the German ambassador in Kinshasa.


DRC President Joseph Kabila arrived in Tanzania for the summit
Wednesday, after speculation that he would not attend.


Zambian President Levy Mwanawasa, Namibian President Hifikepunye
Pohamba, Mozambique's President Armando Emilio Guebuza, Lesotho's
Prime Minister Pakalitha Mosisili, Malawian President Bingu wa
Mutharika and Botswanan Vice President Seretse Khama Ian Khama
also arrived Wednesday in Dar es Salaam.

