

British soldiers say they will never forget the ghastly sights,
sounds and smells of the battles to recapture the rocky windswept
Falkland Islands in the south Atlantic 25 years ago.


"War has distinct sounds and smells that stay with me today,"
recalled Steven Cocks.


There is "the smell of cordite and blood on wet grass" as well as
"the deafening thump of mortars, artillery, naval bombardment,
hand grenades, machine guns" and officers barking out orders.


At 18, he was a lance corporal who joined the last push to
capture the capital Stanley on June 14, just 73 days after the
Argentine invasion on April 2 triggered a British decision to go
to war 8,000 miles away.


Cocks, whose account is published on a British veterans website
Falklands25, was one of 10,000 British sea-borne ground forces
who started arriving in late April as part of an armada of 110
naval and requisitioned civilians ships.


The voyage took 17 days across the Atlantic.


Like most, he came ashore on small landing crafts on stomach-
churning waters, while others jumped from twin-rotored Chinook
helicopters carrying both troops and supplies.


Once ashore, they endured bombing runs by Argentine fighter
planes, shelling from artillery as well as mortar, sniper and
machine gun fire from troops dug into the muddy and rocky hills.


"The bullets zipped all around me and I could feel the air
ripple," he recalled. "I just froze and hugged the ground playing
dead hoping the sniper would lose interest which after a minute
or so he did.


"Next thing I knew mortar bombs started to land around us and we
were all showered with bits of gravel and hot shrapnel," some of
it landing just meters away, he writes.


"All that was saving us was the soft ground as the mortars buried
themselves deep before exploding," he said.


With dawn fast approaching, the unit was compelled to prepare to
attack or risk being exposed on the side of the mountain in full
sight of Argentine forces in Stanley.


But just three meters (yards) to his left, an enemy round
exploded, followed by a moment of silence and then desperate
cries from a soldier who had been hit.


"He had had part of his leg blown off and was crawling around in
the dark moaning and crying out looking for his leg," he said.


An officer yelled to shut him up because he was unnerving his
comrades. He was given morphine and volunteers carried him off
the mountain.


"Later I heard that the stretcher party received a direct hit
from a mortar that killed him, plus two of the guys carrying him
and blew the legs off the other two."


Though often exposed, British troops could summon support from
the ships that served as a lifeline offshore.


Argentine targets on land were vulnerable to gunships firing
massive shells or aircraft carriers launching sorties by Harrier
fighter jets and attack helicopters. Helicopters could also ferry
out supplies rapidly.


However, it was a precarious lifeline, recalled retired General
Jeremy Moore, the land forces commander who helicoptered daily
between his headquarters on the HMS Fearless and the Falklands.


A total of six British ships were sunk and many others were
damaged during Argentine air strikes and Exocet missile attacks.


"The worst moment was the loss of the Atlantic Conveyer," Moore
told AFP during an interview in his village home in southwestern
England.


In addition to the deaths of sailors, there were losses of
several Harrier fighter jets, Chinook transport helicopters,
engineering material for making airstrips and tents for 5,000
troops.


Dave Trotter, a ship's cook, recalled the horror when the HMS
Ardent was hit by an Argentine missile.


"I remember we were at action stations when we got a shout to hit
the deck, the next thing I remember was coming to and seeing the
smoke and the flames and finding three of my ship mates dead," he
said.


Trotter did not realise he was seriously injured at first before
discovering he had blood all over his buttocks and lower back. He
was transferred to various other ships for treatment.


Edward Denmark, who served on the Rapier air defence systems and
survived an Argentine air attack, said he thinks of the Falklands
every day, but is convinced the war was worth it.


"I think it was despite the high price of death and misery. The
people of the Falklands are British subjects and they had and
have every right to be defended," he recalled on the Falklands
website.


Some 255 British troops and three islanders died. Some 649
Argentine servicemen lost their lives.

