

A South Korean presidential envoy held a secret meeting with a
North Korean official just 11 days after the communist state's
nuclear test last October, officials said Thursday.


President Roh Moo-Hyun's office confirmed newspaper reports of
the meeting and said it was held in Beijing on October 20.


Roh sent a former aide, An Hee-Jong, to meet state councillor Lee
Ho-Nam following intelligence reports that the North still wanted
disarmament talks and was eager for a meeting with Seoul,
according to Lee Ho-Chul, a presidential aide for information.


"President Roh and his chief of staff received the report and
gave an instruction to verify its reliability and what North
Korea was thinking of," Lee told Yonhap news agency late
Wednesday.


Lee said the North Koreans only wanted to discuss Seoul's
suspension of rice and fertiliser aid "and little progress was
made" at the Beijing talks.


But in a surprise move, North Korea on October 31 agreed to
return to six-party talks on scrapping its nuclear programme.


Last month it pledged to shut down and seal its plutonium-
producing Yongbyon reactor and other plants by April 14 in
exchange for energy aid.


Dong-A Ilbo newspaper, which broke the news of the Beijing
meeting, on Thursday accused Roh of violating his government's
pledge to make its North Korea policy transparent.


It alleged that An had violated national security laws by meeting
the North Korean without approval from the unification ministry.


Conservative media and political opponents suspect Roh is trying
to arrange an inter-Korean summit this year, to improve the
prospects of his preferred candidate in the December presidential
election.


The government says the time is not yet ripe for a meeting with
North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il.


Other news reports have suggested the Beijing meeting last
October was to prepare the ground for a summit. Lee, the
presidential aide, denied this.


"We were not in a state of proposing a summit at that time when
tensions ran extremely high on the Korean peninsula right after
North Korea's October 9 test," he said.


He said the main topic was whether North Korea was really willing
to return to six-party talks and possible denuclearisation of the
Korean peninsula.

