

Oil prices were holding around six month highs in Asian trade
Thursday as the market continued wary of growing tensions between
Iran and the West, dealers said.


They said that after sharp gains overnight, the latest US
stockpile figures had not provided as much support as expected,
leaving participants with no fresh lead to chase for the moment.


At 11:33 am (0333 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was down 15 cents at 63.93
dollars a barrel from 64.08 dollars in late US trades.


Brent North Sea crude for May was up 10 cents at 65.88 dollars.


In New York trade Wednesday, rumours of a military confrontation
with Iran send the market rocketing to 68.09 dollars at one
point, the highest level since September 6. The rumours quickly
proved false.


"The Iranian situation has dominated trade but the lower-than-
expected gasoline drawdown has kept the market down a bit," said
Commonwealth Bank of Australia commodities strategist Tobin
Gorey.


The latest figures Wednesday showed US gasoline (petrol) reserves
fell only 300,000 barrels to 210.2 million in the week to March
23, against forecasts of a fall of 2.1 million barrels. Gasoline
stocks have been closely watched as demand increases ahead of the
US summer season,


Crude stockpiles fell 900,000 barrels to 328.4 million, compared
with a market forecast for an increase of 2.3 million barrels.


The main focus was on Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer
of oil.


"People are worried there will be a sequence of events that may
interrupt oil supply," said Gorey of the CBA.


"If it gets resolved, the premium (from) Iran will be dissipated
and the market will likely gravitate towards 60 dollars."


Iran is also involved in a dispute with the West over its nuclear
programme.


Britain announced a freeze on all official ties with Iran over
the Islamic state's detention since last Friday of sailors and
marines in the Gulf.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett announced the freezing of ties
shortly after Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed to increase
pressure on Tehran, which he said faced "total isolation."


"With geopolitical tensions so high, the market can quickly react
to any further escalation ... it gives us an idea what would
happen to prices immediately following a US preemptive strike, an
Iranian launch, or a UK offensive to retrieve their captured
soldiers," said Eric Wittenauer at AG Edwards.

