

International luxury hotel chains are spreading in Tokyo on the
back of public works projects, hoping to conquer a city renowned
for expensive tastes but where top-notch hotels were surprisingly
rare.


The latest and most pricey entrant, the Ritz-Carlton, opens
Friday on the top floors of Japan's tallest skyscraper, which is
part of the sprawling new Tokyo Midtown complex of offices, shops
and condominiums.


The most basic room at Tokyo's first Ritz-Carlton starts at
68,250 yen (580 dollars) a night.


Costs go up to 2.1 million yen (18,000 dollars) a night for a 300
square-metre suite, whose design marries European and Japanese
aesthetics, with a view of Mount Fuji and the imperial palace.


In the summer, the Hong Kong-based Peninsula chain will open a
new hotel facing Hibiya Park in the heart of the metropolis.


The Shangri-La also plans a hotel in Tokyo in 2009, adding to the
ranks of the Grand Hyatt, Mandarin Oriental, Conrad, Westin and
Four Seasons which have all entered the Japanese capital since
2000.


Experts say the proliferation of major international luxury names
fills a vacuum in Tokyo -- a city well-known for high prices and
expensive shopping but which international hotels have been slow
to penetrate.


To be sure, Tokyo has established five-star hotels such as the
Imperial, Okura and the New Otani, which have long been
destinations of choice for visiting dignitaries and lavish
wedding ceremonies.


But the domestically owned hotels, which regularly made travel
industry lists of the world's top addresses from the 1950s to
1980s, are relatively inexpensive compared with global trends.


In a country which for the past decade has fought deflation,
standard rooms at five-star hotels run at 250 to 300 dollars a
night -- not the more than 500 dollars at international luxury
chains.


Industry experts predict a strong demand in Tokyo for luxury
hotels, with the clientele expected to include businesspeople,
well-off domestic tourists and retirees and couples looking for
unforgettable trysts.


The Mandarin Oriental, whose futuristic Tokyo hotel was designed
by Cesar Pelli of Petronas Towers fame, has already discovered a
strong customer base in wealthy young businesswomen.


A hotel offers to single women, who need to travel only a taxi
ride away, a weekend getaway from the urban jungle including
access to a fitness club and spa and top-end Japanese and French
cuisine.


Entering Tokyo also lets international chains get to know the
Japanese, an important clientele for luxury hotels the world
over.


"As luxury hotels move in to the city centres they also then want
to take that customer from the city centre and to secure the
business in other locations," said Simon Cooper, president of the
Ritz-Carlton group.


"For example, in Bali 50 percent of our business is Japanese. So
it's another great reason why we wanted to have a benchmark hotel
in Tokyo," he said.


Many new hotels have latched on to the growing number of major
urban complexes such as Tokyo Midtown or nearby Roppongi Hills as
the projects' developers look for tenants.


"As a result, many of the top hotel brands of the world are or
will soon be represented in the prime, central Tokyo hotel
market," said a report by property consultancy Colliers Halifax.


But it said that hotel prices in Tokyo -- already less than
comparable rates in London, Paris or New York -- could actually
continue to fall due to the growing competition.


"Tokyo is already one of the least expensive cities among its
peer group for luxury lodging," it said. "It is fair to assume
that room rates will fall even further in the coming years."

