

AC Milan defender Genaro Gattuso sprang to the defence of under-
fire Italy coach Roberto Donadoi after the world champions
improved their chances of qualifying for the 2008 European
championships with a crucial 2-0 win over Scotland.


Luca Toni headed both goals to take his tally to 12 in 27
international appearances as Italy chalked up their third
consecutive victory in Group B and reduced the gap between them
and the Scots from five points to two at Bari on Wednesday.


Scotland, together with France and Ukraine, top the group on 12
points while Italy have 10. However, the Scots have played one
game more than their rivals.


Italy's win not only gave their qualification hopes a shot in the
arm, but also eased the pressure on their under-fire coach
Roberto Donadoni.


Some Italian newspaper reports said Donadoni was going to be
sacked if the Azzurri had failed to beat the Scots.


The 43-year-old former AC Milan and Italy midfielder has
struggled to win over the media since he took over from Marcello
Lippi shortly after the World Cup, and just one point from their
first two qualifiers did little to help his cause.


But after a stuttering start, three straight wins have revived
their campaign, leaving them better placed to reach next year's
tournament in Austria and Switzerland.


And Gattuso said: "Unfortunately in Italy games are played in
newspapers first before the pitch.


"They (the media) massacred Donadoni. We wanted to win this match
tonight for ourselves but above all for him. He's an excellent
hard working coach."


Donadoni remarked: "These great players gave the reply that was
required. All the rest is just useless chit-chat. I'm thinking
now of the next game against Lithuania, a game we have to win."


Scotland manager Alex McLeish, whose first game in charge was
last Saturday's 2-1 home win over Georgia, was disappointed with
the number of free-kicks his team conceded, especially the one
which set up Toni for the first goal.


"We thought we could come and get something here tonight against
the world champions," he said.


"We were confident and I think we had the belief, but the amount
of free-kicks we gave away tonight cost us dearly. It taught us a
lesson in European football.


"But we have to go forward and the games in Glasgow will be very
important.


"We are still in with a chance. We are in the fight with the
other teams."


The Scots, who had beaten Italy just once in their previous eight
meetings, were indebted to central defender Stephen McManus in
the second minute when his impeccably-timed sliding tackle
blocked Toni's shot.


Toni, Serie A's leading scorer with 18 goals, fired wide seconds
later as Italy made all the early running at the San Nicola
stadium.


Mcmanus was having trouble shackling Toni and a foul by the
Celtic defender on Italy's lone striker wide on the right led to
the home side going ahead in the 12th minute.


Massimo Oddo delivered the ball into the six-yard box and Toni's
powerful header flashed past Craig Gordon.


Scotland took 32 minutes before mustering their first shot on
goal, Lee McCulloch's tame effort comfortably gathered by
Gianluigi Buffon.


The visitors carved out a decent chance at the end of the first
half when Gary Naysmith's left-wing cross found Kenny Miller, but
the Celtic striker headed wide.


Gordon kept Scotland in the match with two outstanding saves in
quick succession from Antonio Di Natale shortly after the
interval when one-on-one with the Scottish keeper.


Italy grabbed the second goal their pressure deserved in the 70th
minute, Mauro Camoranesi's teasing right-wing cross to the back
post nodded home by the prowling Toni.


Scotland were left to chase the game and Italy played possession
football for the remainder of the match to claim three precious
points.

