

England will attempt to secure a fifth straight win in the Hong
Kong Sevens this weekend, with Fiji and South Africa among the
teams likely to provide a competitive and action-packed
tournament.


The English have dominated in recent years under captain Simon
Amor, who first led the side to victory in Hong Kong in 2002.


But they have fared poorly on this season's international sevens
circuit and sit in fifth place after four tournaments, behind
Fiji, New Zealand, South Africa and Samoa.


England coach Ben Ryan, who took up the job in January, said his
players have only just gelled into a side that could collect the
100,000 dollar winners' cheque.


"After a lot of uncertainty over who would be available, it is
great to finally have a squad we are so pleased with," he said
ahead of Friday's opening games.


"We have not done brilliantly in the earlier tournaments, but we
were picking from a small group. Now we have a serious gang of
players who should perform very well."


The Hong Kong Sevens has been a breeding ground for England
internationals, with 14 of the 32 players involved in their last
four wins going on to play for the senior side, and the trend
looks set to continue.


"Danny Care and Dave Doherty are two names who may become stars
this weekend and who I expect to graduate to the full England
team, so too should Dave Seymour," said Ryan.


"Ben Gollings, one of the greatest ever Sevens players, is not
here. But we knew his situation some time ago, due to his
contract with Doncaster. I like to think he would fight to get a
place in our side now.


"And to have Simon Amor as captain is such a bonus. He has
perhaps the best tactical brain in the game."


Amor, 28, said: "We are a team desperate to win this tournament
-- both those players who have won before and those who have not.


"Fiji are favourites, I think. They have been playing
fantastically this year, and there is Samoa, who won in
Wellington in February, which was tremendous for the game.


"If we can pull it together, we have the potential. We have a
good balance between experience and youth, and should definitely
be there come the end of the day."


Veteran Fiji superstar Waisale Serevi, 38, returns for what may
be his final appearance at the Hong Kong Sevens, and his side
have a major chance of adding to their nine previous wins.


"There is only one tournament for us in Fiji," he said. "Since we
were at school we all stopped whatever we were doing and listened
on the radio.


"When we win the Hong Kong Sevens it is a good year for everyone
at home."


But he told his players to relax, saying: "I always tell my teams
to forget what other people are saying. If you worry about other
teams you will put a lot of pressure on yourself.


"Enjoy it, keep smiling and do you what you do best -- playing
rugby."


Host team Hong Kong, who are drawn in England's group with
Argentina and Korea, are not seen as trophy contenders.


But their coach Rodney McIntosh agreed with a growing consensus
that Sunday could see a team win the tournament for the first
time.


"My tip is South Africa," he said. "They are well-coached (by
Paul Treu) and are definitely a top team. They will be there or
thereabouts on the final day."


"One thing's for sure, as always in Hong Kong, this weekend's
going to be enormous fun for fans, players and everyone
involved."


Tickets have sold out for the three-day event, which is a rowdy
social occasion for the 40,000 people in the stadium -- and many
more in bars and clubs throughout the city.

