

One is an Iraqi Sunni, the other an Iranian Shiite. Both have
fled a war. Now business partners in their new home of Sweden,
they have made a life for themselves by venturing into
traditional Swedish pastry-making.


Their success story is called Grandma's Bakery (Mormors Bageri),
founded 12 years ago. Today, the two immigrants -- Farhad
Akhondipour, an Iranian Shiite, and Zozek Mohammed, an Iraqi
Sunni -- run a small chain of typical Swedish-style cafes and
bakeries.


"At the beginning, we had one stone oven, one pastry mixer, and a
table," recalls Akhondipour, 49, a broad smile spreading across
his face as he sits down at a table at one of his cafes in Lund,
in southern Sweden.


The company has grown and now counts three cafes with on-site
bakeries, 40 employees and a production site where large orders
are prepared for customers such as multinationals Ericsson and
Tetra Pak.


Grandma's Bakery had sales of 19 million kronor (2.04 million
euros, 2.71 million dollars) in 2006, and expects that number to
rise to 25 to 30 million this year.


Akhondipour came to Lund in 1979 to study engineering, but never
moved back home because of the war between Iran and Iraq. He was
importing pistachios and exotic fruits when he met Mohammed, 35,
who had fled the first Gulf War in 1991 and was working at a
fruit and vegetable market.


The two decided to go into business together.


"I had 75 kronor in my pocket when I arrived in Sweden," Mohammed
says in fluent Swedish. He came to the country with his parents
when he was 20 to join his brother, and the family immediately
set to work to find jobs and learn Swedish.


Akhondipour says he inherited his business sense from his family.


"My mother, my father, everyone is in business ... It's in my
blood," he says, elbows propped on the table and a high-tech
bluetooth phone hooked to his ear.


The decision to start a bakery-cum-cafe was an obvious one, says
Akhondipour, given the Swedish tradition of "fika," or morning
and afternoon coffee breaks, and Swedes' love of cafes for
breakfast, lunch, fika or light evening meals.


"Today there are 120,000 people in Lund, and everyone has a
stomach that needs filling three times a day! It's a good
market," he says.


Akhondipour and Mohammed decided early on to venture into
traditional Swedish coffee breads and pastries, offering a wide
selection that includes cinnamon and cardamom buns, princess cake
with its distinctive top layer of green marzipan, and almond
pastries.


At Christmas they even serve traditional dishes from the
Scandinavian countryside.


But they also offer some exotic, international touches: Italian
ciabattas, Greek olive bread, French baguettes, bagels and sesame
bread made from an Iranian recipe.


"We wanted our products to be a bit different, a bit special,
since we're a bit different than others," says Akhondipour.


Different from Swedes yes, but still very much at home in Sweden.


"I'm an immigrant in Iraq!" jokes Mohammed.


He admits that his first months in Sweden were filled with a
sense of loneliness and isolation. But he insists that immigrants
can only integrate into their new culture by opening themselves
up to what their new homeland has to offer.


"It's important to know why you're here ... It's you who came,
not them who came to get you. You are a minority. It's up to you
to adapt," he says, an energetic and vibrant look in his eyes.


Mohammed feels a strong sense of gratitude toward Sweden and is
glad that he is able to give a little back.


"We have about 40 employees ... more than half of whom are
Swedish citizens. But we are also proud that we have been able to
give jobs to immigrants," he says.


Akhondipour and Mohammed, who both say they will probably live
the rest of their lives in Sweden, agree that it was easier for
immigrants to make a life for themselves here before than it is
now.


The Scandinavian country receives more Iraqi asylum requests than
anywhere else in Europe, with thousands of people arriving each
month.


The thorny subject of religion -- which divides parts of the
Muslim world -- is not an issue for the Shiite and Sunni business
partners.


"That conflict has existed for many years. You can choose to
continue the conflict or not," says Mohammed.


"We don't have time for this conflict, we have too much work to
do!," adds Akhondipour.

