

Japan clandestinely asked a Shinto shrine to honour war
criminals, showing the government was closely involved in what
has turned into a major diplomatic row, reports said Thursday.


The Yasukuni shrine venerates 2.5 million Japanese war dead
including World War II leaders condemned by US-led allied powers
as war criminals. It has been seen abroad and by many at home as
a symbol of Japan's militarist past.


US occupation forces stripped the shrine of its official status
after World War II and Japanese leaders have since stressed the
site's private nature.


But documents released by the National Diet Library and reported
Thursday by major newspapers suggest the government was closely
involved in the decision to include war criminals at the shrine.


A document dated January 1969 shows the shrine consulted the
government on plans to list the names of top, or Class-A, war
criminals, "without making it public," the Yomiuri Shimbun
newspaper said.


The Yasukuni shrine discreetly added the names of 14 Class-A war
criminals, who include hanged wartime premier Hideki Tojo, in
October 1978.


Another document dated April 1958 said the welfare ministry urged
the shrine to list the names of hundreds of lower-ranking class-B
and class-C war criminals.


"How about enshrining them in a way that would be hard to
discover?" a document quoted an unnamed official as saying,
according to the Yomiuri Shimbun.


But the government denied official pressure.


"It's the shrine's decision whom to include and whom not to
include in the list for enshrinement," chief government spokesman
Yasuhisa Shiozaki said.


"The final decision is made by the shrine and the government did
not force it to do anything," he told reporters.


Former prime minister Junichiro Koizumi repeatedly visited the
shrine, infuriating China and South Korea which remain resentful
over Japanese imperialism. The two countries refused summits with
Koizumi.


Since succeeding Koizumi in September, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
is not known to have visited the shrine, leading to a resumption
of summits with Beijing and Seoul.


Abe was in the past a strong supporter of the shrine but since
taking office has chosen "strategic ambiguity" on whether he will
go.


The Liberal Democratic Party has been in power continuously for
all but 10 months since 1955.

