

Brian Lara may have been delighted by the "batting paradise"
provided by the pitch at the recently-built Sir Vivian Richards
stadium.


But the lack of spectators for its first major match, the Super
Eight clash between hosts West Indies and World Cup holders
Australia, left him feeling "very disappointed".


In a match spread over two days because of rain, West Indies went
down to a crushing 103-run defeat here Wednesday.


What made it worse was that so few people witnessed live what
should have been one of the showpiece fixtures of the tournament.


In a ground with a capacity of 19,000, only 9,000 turned up on
Tuesday after 11,100 tickets had been sold in advance, with
between 500-700 purchased on the day, according to official
figures.


And the venue was barely a third full Wednesday.


While attendances for many 'neutral' matches throughout the
tournament so far have been low, the fact so few people showed up
to see the West Indies was a particular concern to the hosts'
captain.


"It was very disappointing," said Lara.


"You sit back and you think at least every single game the West
Indies play is going to be a full house.


"I don't know what to put my finger on as the problem but again
we've just got to focus on the cricket and hopefully the people
will come out."


Cricket World Cup commercial director Stephen Price said it was
too soon to say why the Antigua public hadn't turned up on
Tuesday, which had been declared a public holiday on the island
in honour of the stadium's first major match.


"Any suggestion at the moment would be purely speculative," he
told AFP here Wednesday.


"Maybe it was because the weather on Tuesday wasn't good and that
the West Indies weren't batting.


"But the money from the people who haven't turned up will be
banked and used for the future of cricket in Antigua."


And he rejected suggestions that with tickets for the Windies-
Australia clash ranging from 25 US dollars to 100 US dollars,
that local fans were priced out of the market.


"I really disagree with that. This was a collaborative process
across the region and all the local organising committees had an
input.


"Tickets are definitely not out of reach. There are plenty of
lower category seats available."


Lara, who set the world record Test score of 400 not out at the
old Antigua Recreation Ground, said the new ground was worthy of
being named after Richards, one of West Indies' greatest batsmen.


"This is beautiful. It's a batting paradise as far as I am
concerned. But it's also a very good stadium and it goes with the
man, Sir Vivian Richards.


"We had wonderful times at the ARG but now we move on to the Sir
Vivian Richards Stadium and this is something we will be proud of
over the years."

