

Iran broadcast the first pictures of 15 detained British navy
personnel, with one sailor saying they trespassed into Iranian
waters, sparking an angry condemnation from London.


The footage broadcast Wednesday showed the Britons having a meal
and featured Faye Turney, 26, the only woman among them, wearing
a black headscarf and saying: "Obviously we trespassed in the
waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location and not allowed them any contact with British diplomats.


In a letter to her family released by the Iranian embassy in
London, Turney also said "I have written a letter to the Iranian
people to apologise for us entering into their waters."


She ended: "Please don't worry about me. I'm staying strong.
Hopefully it won't be long until I'm home to get ready for
Molly's birthday party" -- a reference to her three-year-old
daughter.


It was unclear when or where the footage was filmed and the
authenticity of the letter could not immediately be confirmed.


London reacted angrily to the footage and said Iranian promises
to release her soon were insufficient.


"I am very concerned about these pictures and any indication of
pressure on or coercion of our personnel who were carrying out a
routine operation in accordance with international law and under
a United Nations resolution in support of the Iraqi government,"
Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said in a statement.


London argues that the captured personnel were conducting
"routine" anti- smuggling operations in Iraqi waters when they
were seized at gunpoint last Friday, while Tehran insists they
had "illegally entered" Iranian waters.


Britain also said a pledge from Tehran to release Turney within
two days was "not good enough" with a British foreign ministry
spokesman saying: "Obviously the release of one person, one of
the military personnel and not the others, is not good enough.


"All personnel were in Iraqi waters carrying out their duties,
under a UN Security Council resolution mandate at the request of
the government of Iraq, and we expect them all to be released,
and for the British government to have immediate consular access
as a prelude to their release," said the spokesman.


The foreign ministry also told AFP it had yet to hear directly
from Iranian officials following press reports that Tehran will
grant them access to the group.


"We await further details from the Iranian government on their
undertaking to act on our request for consular access to the
Royal Navy personnel," said a spokesman. "We continue to press
strongly for their immediate release."


Amid mounting tensions, heightened by US navy exercises in the
Gulf, Beckett earlier Wednesday announced the freeze in
government-to-government contact in a statement to the British
parliament.


"We need to focus all our bilateral efforts during this phase on
the resolution of this issue," she said. "We will therefore be
imposing a freeze on all other official bilateral business with
Iran."


Britain also revealed evidence that it said showed the 15 were in
Iraqi waters when detained.


Iran rejected this and played down Britain's decision to freeze
contacts with Tehran, saying ties were already "cold and
inactive," the official news agency IRNA quoted a foreign
ministry source as saying.


British military chiefs used maps and GPS coordinates to affirm
that the navy personnel were 1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometres)
within Iraqi waters at the northern end of the Gulf. It gave the
coordinates as 29 degrees 50.36 minutes north and 48 degrees
43.08 minutes east.


The Iranian embassy in London insisted that the British personnel
had "illegally entered" up to 500 metres (550 yards) within
Iranian territorial waters.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair emphasised his country's
determination in the dispute.


"It is now time to ratchet up the diplomatic and international
pressure" on Tehran, Blair told lawmakers, adding that "there was
no justification whatever" for the detention of the sailors.


There has been speculation that Tehran could use the British
personnel either to trade for five Iranians being held by US
forces in Iraq or for concessions over Iran's controversial
nuclear programme.


Speaking for the European Union, German Chancellor Angela Merkel
called Iran's action "unacceptable" and renewed a call for the
soldiers' release.


NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer also called for
their immediate release.


The United States, which has already voiced "concern and outrage"
over the incident, denied that an unusual exercise involving two
US aircraft carrier strike groups in the Gulf was aimed at
raising tensions with Iran.


Washington said it was to reassure friends and allies.


In New York meanwhile, oil prices surged to six-month highs as
Britain froze ties with Iran and rumours grew of a possible
military clash between the West and the Islamic Republic.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, jumped 1.15 dollars to close at 64.08 dollars a
barrel.

