

Neither the tourists on board the ice-breaker Aurora, nor the
eagle perched on a block of ice watching them, seem to be
bothered by apocalyptic scenarios that rising water levels will
one day submerge Japan's coast.


But little do they know that every winter the celebrated ice
drift that washes onto Japan's northern coast from Siberia is
getting thinner.


"Without dispute, global warming is reducing it. The sea ice is
diminishing," said Masaaki Wakatsuchi, an expert on winter
weather at Hokkaido University.


Every year the Amur, Siberia's longest river, dumps tonnes of ice
into the Sea of Okhotsk, creating the world's largest ice drift
which, depending on the winds, bastes Japan's Abashiri port in
late January or early February.


But in 2006, the volume of ice was the smallest since statistics
were first kept four decades ago.


This year, even though Japan has experienced an exceptionally
mild winter, the ice floe arrived nine days earlier than in 2006.
But it was still later than normal.


"The winds weren't good. For the past two years the ice has
landed late on the Japanese coast. A year ago, we couldn't even
see it from Abashiri port," lamented a sailor on the 350-seat
Aurora.


The ice floe generally stays until early April, allowing ferries
of tourists to explore it for around 50 days. Last year, the ice
barely approached Abashiri, meaning the season lasted only around
a dozen days.


On a recent trip, it took a quarter of an hour on sea to notice
the massive white sheet on the horizon. Temperatures needed to be
one degree Celsius colder for the sea to freeze, making it
impossible to get off and walk on the ice floe.


As seagulls seem to fly close enough to touch, the Aurora
slithers its way slowly through the pristine ice, which cracks
open before quickly closing back up.


A Japanese tourist claps. But there are no cheers from
scientists.


When the Sea of Okhotsk takes in the waters of the Amur, it is
replenished with an enormous number of nutrients, such as iron,
which in turn feed into the Pacific Ocean and beyond, said
Wakatsuchi, the professor.


"The Sea of Okhotsk and the Pacific Ocean will be deprived of
their richness, such as fauna, flora and the phytoplanktons which
are the nutrients for other fauna and flora. So the impact will
be very, very big," he warned.


A recent UN study blamed human activity for global warming and
warned that Earth's average surface temperatures could rise
between 1.1 and 6.4 degrees Celsius by 2100.


For Wakatsuchi, even if "it's difficult to prove completely," the
rising temperatures on the Sea of Okhotsk and the decline of the
ice floe are proof the Earth is getting warmer.


"Global warming is weakening nature's ability to create the sea
ice that is the origin of the richness of the sea," he said. "The
great environment of the sea is being destroyed."


--  A global impact --


The decline of the ice floe may disappoint tourists, but the most
serious impact is invisible to most people underneath the Sea of
Okhotsk.


"There are 500 million planktons which are the food for the
plants that grow below the sea-ice. And these plants are food for
the animals in the sea," said Yoshiyuki Fujii, head of the
National Polar Research Institute in Tokyo.


"So when sea ice melts, this will affect the whole eco-system,"
he said.


Back on dry land and another ferry ride away, the effects are
already being felt on the northernmost point of Japan, Rebun
Island, where fishermen say that herrings -- their lifeblood --
are becoming scarcer.


Stung by the harsh winds, the tiny island facing Russia's
Sakhalin looks all but deserted in the winter, although it is
only half covered by snow. Tourists mostly come in the summer to
the so-called "Flower Island".


One of the few signs of life is at the port, where a twice-daily
but mostly empty ferry connects to Wakkanai port on Japan's main
northern island of Hokkaido.


In the 20 years to 2005, the number of islanders in Rebun has
fallen to 3,410 from 5,724 and the number of fishermen has
dropped to 495 from 857.


In the picturesque volcanic island of Rishiri, the population has
dropped to 2,951 from 5,352 and the number of fishermen has gone
down to only 369 from 796 in 1985.


Along the coast dotted by sites of the neolithic Jomons, the
first culture to have produced pottery, the fishermen dry
herrings outside their modest wooden houses, nets guarding the
catch from hungry birds.


"We've seen a long decline in herrings over the past 30 or 40
years," said Mikami Hideshige, leader of the fishermen's
association in Kafuka, Rebun's capital.


But in recent years other fish from the deep blue, including
highly prized sea urchins and a local variety of mackerel, have
also been in decline.


"We are worried. Our stocks have gone down by 20 to 30 percent in
the past two years," Hideshige said.


"We had a bad catch of codfish in November and December because
the water wasn't cold enough. For the last two seasons, the cold
northwesterly winds didn't blow in August. The sea isn't getting
cold," he said.


From the sight of bare white mountains and frozen lakes, it is
hard to believe that Rebun's climate has become forgiving.


But nonetheless, this winter the snow has been cruelly deficient,
in what Japanese meteorologists link to the El Nino effect of
temperature fluctuations in the Pacific Ocean.


"In December, there was only half the snow as usual. When I was a
kid, it used to reach the second floor of my house," recalled one
fisherman as he cleaned one of the impeccably lined-up trawlers
off the shore.


Less snow in the sea means fewer nutrients, disrupting the entire
cycle.


"We live on what we earn in the summertime as we lose money
fishing in the winter. But now we don't have anything left to
save," Hideshige said.

