

At least 10 people were killed in heavy fighting between
Ethiopian troops and insurgents in Mogadishu Thursday morning,
witnesses and an AFP correspondent said.


It was the first significant fighting since the Hawiye clan,
which has largely controlled the Somali capital since 1991,
reached a ceasefire deal with Ethiopian forces last Friday.


An AFP correspondent saw two dead civilians in the fighting in
the southern Ali Kamin neighbourhood, and witnesses said three
others had died.


"I have seen two people killed by stray bullets and I have also
seen three others wounded. I can see the Ethiopian tanks taking
positions in our neighbourhood, in front of my house," said
resident Mohamed Ali Hassan.


"I have seen a neighbour killed by stray bullets," said Hawo
Moalil. "My younger daughter was wounded by a stray bullet."


Meanwhile residents reported five others killed in Gupta
neighbourhood, also in southern Mogadishu, after artillery hit a
garage.


"We don't know where the fire was coming from, maybe it was a
mortar or an artillery shell. Five people were killed, three of
them in the garage and two others were outside," said a resident,
Ahmed Hassan Madobe.


He said that continued fighting prevented residents from
collecting the bodies, and that six people had been wounded.


"The place was full of smoke after a big bang. Three people were
killed inside the garage and two were in a compound next to the
garage," said another resident, Asha Abdullahi.


She said nine people had been wounded and three were in a
criticial condition.


Ethiopian tanks rolled into southern neighbourhoods as fighting
continued Thursday morning, after deploying nearby on Wednesday
evening.


Ethiopian forces, which support Somalia's transition government,
chased Islamist forces out of the capital and the southern half
of the country three months ago, but have come under increasing
attacks by insurgents.


A bloody power struggle that followed the 1991 ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre exploded into inter-clan warfare that has
defied more than 14 attempts to restore a functional government
in Somalia.

