

Ownership of the Falklands, the bleak south Atlantic islands
inhabited by more sheep than people, has been disputed by
Argentina and Britain for nearly 175 years.


According to Argentina, the 200-island archipelago located 550
kilometers (350 miles) west of the Straits of Magellan is their
territory, stolen by the British in 1833. They call the islands
the Malvinas.


The rocky, treeless islands today are home to some 3,000 people,
all but 400 who live in or near the capital Port Stanley.


There is also a British garrison of some 1,200 soldiers and air
force personnel and their families based at Mount Pleasant,
located just outside Port Stanley.


Britain argues that island residents, virtually all of British
ancestry, have the right to self-determination.


The windswept archipelago is spread over some 11,410 square
kilometers but mainly consists of two large islands, the West
Falkland and East Falkland.


Some 600,000 sheep provide the backbone of the land economy. The
main source of income, however, comes from the sale of fishing
licenses, and the islands "are economically self-sufficient in
all areas except defense," according to the Falklands
government's official website.


The tiny community however frequently sends for specialists in
everything from gynaecology to piano-tuning.


Children are educated locally until the age of 16, when they get
the option to study at a sixth-form college in Winchester,
southern England. The government generously supports students who
go on to university.


A local legislative council, and its appointed three-person
executive council, is presided over by a governor appointed by
London.


Although some accounts have sailors with Ferdinand Magellan's
global circumnavigation expedition visiting the islands in 1521,
the first recorded European sighting was in 1592 by the English
sea captain John Davis.


The first recorded landing, according to the Falklands
government, was nearly 100 years later by another English
navigator, John Strong.


French sailors also visited the islands, and in 1764 explorer
Louis Antoine de Bougainville established a French settlement.
They named them the Malouines, after settlers from the French
port of St. Malo.


The islands were transferred to Spain in 1776 and incorporated
into the Viceroyalty of the Rio de la Plata, and when the
viceroyalty declared independence, the young Argentina claimed
the islands in the 1820s.


British forces however took over the archipelago in 1833, and the
area has been under British control ever since, even though
Argentine authorities never dropped their ownership claim.


Argentina also claims ownership of the even more remote South
Georgia island, located some 1,390 kilometers (865 miles)
southeast of the Falklands.


The ownership spat peaked in 1982, when Argentina invaded the
islands and held them for 74 days before a British military
operation wrested them back. More than 900 people died in the
fighting.

