

Members of Britain's upper house of parliament rejected
government plans for the country's first "super-casino" by a
narrow majority on Wednesday, forcing ministers back to the
drawing board.


Although a vote approving the plan was passed in the lower House
of Commons, the failure of peers in the House of Lords to approve
it means the government must re-visit the proposals.


Two months ago, the northwestern English city of Manchester was
named by the Casino Advisory Panel (CAP) as the surprise choice
for Britain's first Las Vegas-style casino, beating front-runners
London and Blackpool.


The independent panel also set out plans for eight "large" and
eight "small" casinos in various other towns and cities around
the country.


Peers voted by a majority of 123 to 120 to throw out the
government's plans.


Instead, they backed an amendment calling for a joint committee
made up of members of both houses of parliament to examine the
decision-making process behind the proposals.


Some members of the Lords expressed dissatisfaction that the
choice of Manchester as the site for the "super-casino" was not
put before parliament before it was announced.


Moments after the Lords' vote, MPs in the House of Commons backed
the motion by a majority of 274 to 250.


However, Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell told them the government
would come back to the Commons with proposals on how "we will
take this policy forward."


The plans for the casinos around the country were opposed by a
coalition including the main opposition Conservatives, the
smaller opposition Liberal Democrats, and various MPs opposed to
gambling and the choice of Manchester.


The "super-casino" site, to be situated in a run-down area of the
city, will be at least 5,000 square metres (53,800 square feet)
in size and have up to 1,250 unlimited jackpot gaming machines.


Some 265 million pounds (390 million euros, 520 million dollars)
of investment were to be pumped into the casino complex, which
includes a hotel, bars, a nightclub, swimming pool and sports
centre, creating 2,700 jobs.


"Large" casinos will cover up to 1,500 square metres (16,150
square feet) and have up to 150 gaming machines with jackpots of
up to 4,000 pounds.


The CAP recommended that all the "large" casinos be set up in
England.


All but two of the "small" casinos, which will cover up to 750
square metres (8,000 square feet) with up to 80 of the
4,000-pound jackpot machines, will be in England.

