

Britain marks in the coming weeks the 25th anniversary of its
victory in the Falklands war, a conflict which triggered an
outpouring of patriotism and whose casualties are still mourned.


Then prime minister Margaret Thatcher, whose Iron Lady reputation
was forged during the crisis, will join tributes to the 255
British troops and three islanders killed fighting Argentine
forces in the remote South Atlantic.


In a country currently more focused on conflicts in Iraq and
Afghanistan, and where patriotism is now tinged with controversy,
Falklands exhibitions, reunion dinners, and church memorials have
multiplied since the start of the year.


Events will climax on June 14, the date in 1982 when Argentina
surrendered to Britain less than three months after it invaded
the rugged, windswept south Atlantic archipelago on April 2.


Argentina, which lost 649 men in a war that triggered the
collapse of its military junta, is hosting its own remembrance
ceremonies.


Veterans' Minister Derek Twigg described the Falklands campaign
as "one of the most memorable events" for Britain since World War
II.


"The liberation of the islands was a huge achievement by our
forces, operating in harsh conditions 8,000 miles (13,000
kilometres) away from home," Twigg said in announcing the
celebrations late last year.


British television viewers will be able to watch live coverage of
services on June 14, a Friday, from the cathedral in Stanley, the
capital of the archipelago of 3,000 people.


On this side of the Atlantic, a service of commemoration and
remembrance attended by senior members of the royal family will
be held June 14 at the Falkland Islands Memorial Chapel near
Reading, west of London.


And on Sunday, June 17 a showpiece event here will consist of a
march of veterans and their modern-day service counterparts in
London along The Mall to Buckingham Palace, Queen Elizabeth II's
official residence.


There will be a flypast of Falklands-era aircraft as well as a
live link-up with the Falklands. Islanders and veterans will
recount the events in their own words.


The anniversary offers a stark contrast between the massive
public opposition to Britain's campaign in Iraq today and the
patriotic fervor that gripped the nation during the Falklands
war.


"Iraq didn't have the support in the first place, and subsequent
events have made everyone very, very suspicious of the motives of
the government in actually going to war in Iraq," military
analyst Charles Heyman told AFP.


Lawrence Freedman, a military historian at King's College London,
said the Argentine invasion left "no doubt in Britain that it was
the aggrieved party," adding Thatcher's quick response "also
generated a lot of enthusiasm."


Thatcher is due to attend remembrance events, if her
deteriorating health permits.


After Argentina's then military rulers seized the lightly-
defended overseas territory to assert their country's long-held
claim of sovereignty over what "the Malvinas," Thatcher sent 110
ships and 28,000 personnel to retake them.


Hostilities involved combat in the air, land and sea, with the
loss of six British ships and damage to many others by Argentine
air attacks that involved the French-built Exocet missile.


However, backed by gunships and carrier-launched warplanes and
helicopters, 10,000 British troops landed on the islands and
defeated a similar number of Argentine forces.


In the most controversial incident, 323 Argentines died when the
Conqueror, a British nuclear-powered submarine firing
conventional torpedos, sunk the cruiser General Belgrano.


Heyman, a retired British army major who edits the annual Armed
Forces of the United Kingdom, said the war highlighted the
importance of a "tough, fit and well-trained" infantry as well as
naval power, especially submarines.


But the dramatic victory is ebbing away from people's minds.


"Much of it now has disappeared from the national consciousness,"
Heyman said. "It means something to people who are middle-aged
and probably older, but not an awful lot to youngsters."

