

Sri Lanka fast bowler Lasith Malinga became the first man to take
took four wickets in four balls in an international match before
South Africa scrambled a one-wicket win in a World Cup Super
Eights match at Providence here on Wednesday.


"It was pretty stressful," admitted South Africa captain Graeme
Smith.


"I even caught one or two of the guys having a cigarette.!"


South Africa were heading for a comfortable win, with four runs
needed and five wickets in hand to reach a target of 210 when
Malinga yorked Shaun Pollock with the fifth ball of his eighth
over.


Andrew Hall then scooped a catch to cover off the next ball.


Jacques Kallis took a single off the next over from Chaminda Vaas
but was then caught behind for 86 off the first ball of Malinga's
ninth over.


Makhaya Ntini had his stumps scattered by a fast yorker as
Malinga became the first bowler in one-day international history
to take four wickets off successive balls.


Charl Langeveldt, who earlier took a career-best five for 39 as
Sri Lanka limped to 209 all out, scrambled a single off Malinga
before Robin Peterson edged a boundary to clinch a crucial win
for South Africa.


Smith said his team had dominated 95 overs of the match.


"We always knew it was going to be a difficult chase. It was a
very good effort on our part to restrict them to 209 and then
chase the way we did. Bar the last five overs I think we were
very good today."


The win relieved some of the pressure on South Africa, whose
83-run defeat against Australia in St Kitts Saturday meant they
entered the Super Eight phase without any points.


It also ensured that South Africa would collect a 150,000-dollar
bonus as the world's number one-ranked team as they cannot be
topped by the April 1 cut-off for the International Cricket
Councils championship ratings.


Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene was philosophical about the
defeat, his team's first in the tournament.


"The way we batted wasn't very pleasing. We didn't deserve to
win. But Malinga's heroics showed that we don't give up."


Jayawardene, who delayed taking the final power play until the
45th over, when Malinga took his first two wickets, admitted that
Sri Lanka were not in the game until the wickets started to fall.


"We never had a chance. So when he took his wickets I just told
him to enjoy it and not put a lot of pressure on himself."


Smith said that despite the late collapse it was a key win for
South Africa.


"We have won a tight game and in the last while we have been in
tight games a number of times and have won them. It hasn't always
happened that way for South African teams in World Cups," said
the skipper.


Off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan had appeared the only major
obstacle to South Africa's win.


He ended a 95-run second wicket stand between Smith and Kallis
when he had Smith stumped by Kumar Sangakkara for 59 in his
second over.


Muralitharan struck twice off successive balls in the second over
of a second spell, and his eighth of the innings, when he took a
return catch from Herschelle Gibbs and trapped Mark Boucher leg
before.


The whole of the Sri Lankan team and many in a small crowd went
up when the hat- trick ball to Justin Kemp was caught by Russel
Arnold at short leg.


But umpire Daryl Harper gave Kemp not out and replays showed the
ball went off Kemp's pad.


Muralitharan took three for 38, while Malinga finished with four
for 54.


Earlier Russel Arnold (50) and Tillekeratne Dilshan (58) were
mainly responsible for Sri Lanka, who won the toss, making a
respectable total.


They put on 97 for the sixth wicket after their side slumped to
98 for five.


But after Dilshan was caught at third man off Makhaya Ntini, who
took two for 26, Sri Lanka lost their last four wickets for one
run, with Langeveldt taking three wickets in his final over all
to attempted big hits.


Former prison warner Langeveldt, 32, took two wickets in a first
spell of two for 22 in six overs.


He came on at a crucial time, replacing opening bowler Shaun
Pollock, who was hit for 32 in his first four overs.


Following the example of Australia, who appeared to target
Pollock, Sri Lankan opening batsman Upul Tharanga and Sanath
Jayasuriya went for their shots against the South African
veteran, who holds a big lead at the top of the ICC one-day
bowling rankings.

