

Jeremy Moore, the general who commanded British land forces
during the Falklands war 25 years ago, worried throughout the
campaign that victory could slip from his grasp.


Yet Argentina's defeat came within 10 weeks of its surprise
invasion on April 2, 1982 of the south Atlantic islands.


And it came with an ironic twist, the 79-year-old commander
recalled, savouring the moment with wry amusement as he sat in a
sunroom of his hillside cottage in southern England.


"Wow, that was a relief!" Moore remembered saying to himself
after he and Argentine General Mario Benjamin Menendez signed the
surrender document in Stanley, the territory's capital on June
14, 1982.


"And I looked at him and I thought, funny, you're nothing like
the guy I thought I'd come to fight," the retired warrior, father
and bespectacled grandfather told AFP.


"I was expecting a much more vigorous, forceful chap, a special
forces man who would try all sorts of tricks on us, and I didn't
get them of course," said Moore, himself a short and wiry
straight talker.


It turned out that British intelligence had handed him a profile
of the wrong Menendez -- there were five -- when he set off on
his trans-Atlantic crossing aboard the refitted Queen Elizabeth
II cruise liner weeks earlier.


"So I said to myself, what would have happened if I'd been
fighting the right Menendez?" he wondered, adding that the faulty
intelligence "made me a bit more cautious" throughout the
campaign.


It was a campaign that could have been derailed by too many
Argentine hits on British supply ships or by international
political pressure; and the surrender itself could have been
torpedoed by Menendez's refusal to sign it.


"It was a very nervous time I have to say," he said "because in
my mind, if he didn't (surrender), a whole lot of people would be
killed unnecessarily when the fighting resumed."


Up to June 14 more than 900 people had died, including 655
Argentines, 255 British service personnel and three Falkland
Islanders.


The smooth surrender flowed in part from the long leash the
military brass and civilian leadership -- right up to then prime
minister Margaret Thatcher whose "balls" and "nerve" he praised
-- gave Moore throughout the campaign.


"You don't win wars if you don't take risks," he said.


The surrender document helicoptered to him in Stanley from his
command quarters aboard the assault ship HMS Fearless bore the
words "unconditionally," something that worried Moore.


"I was well aware that the Argentinians are a proud race and that
military honour means a great deal to them," he said.


If Menendez hesitated, Moore was ready to let him cross out the
word. "So he crossed it out."


It was the last of many stressful moments, the worst of which was
the May 25 sinking of the Atlantic Conveyer, a merchant ship
turned into an amateur aircraft carrier.


Hitting the seabed with it were several Harrier warplanes and
helicopters -- capable of carrying troops, guns and ammunition --
as well as tents for 5,000 troops and engineering material to
make airstrips.


The losses meant that the troops would be without tents if harsh
winter weather arrived, artillery units risked being short of
shells for the assault on the capital, and the force would be
deprived of a quick means of transport.


Tough decisions were required.


Moore speeded up the offensive to head off winter, rationed
shells, and ordered troops to march 50 miles (90 kilometers) with
heavy packs weighing close to their own body weight.


And the troops marched to Port Stanley in just three days.


"The Argentine officers said where did you get all those
helicopters (to transport them). We marched because they
certainly couldn't have," said Moore.


The feat highlighted one of the main reasons why Britain won.
"Training, training, and training," Moore said.


In contrast with the paratroops and Marines, the Argentines were
conscripts rather than professional soldiers, were in their late
teens rather than 20s, had no experience of combat, and did not
know how to use night-vision devices.


Superior training, Moore said, allowed British troops to defy the
military doctrine that attacking forces need a 3-1 numerical
advantage to overcome troops holding dug-in positions.


The other key to victory was a British navy that managed to
sustain forces fighting thousands of miles from home.


For Moore, the war for the Falklands was a victory achieved
without the same cost in blood as other wars like World War I,
where both his grandfather and father fought and survived.

