

Bunkers, mine fields and a cemetery of fallen Argentine soldiers
still scar the landscape of the Falklands islands 25 years after
the war.


But while 649 Argentine soldiers and 255 British troops and three
islanders died in the conflict, the fighting helped revive the
fortunes of the islands and reversed the population decline.


Before Argentine troops invaded Port Stanley in East Falkland on
April 2, 1982, the per capita gross domestic product was about
3,500 dollars under an agricultural system that was semi-feudal.


The per capita GDP has now soared to 25,000 dollars a year,
according to the 2002 figures from the CIA, and the islanders
enjoy a social system that guarantees health care, education and
pensions for the islanders.


"Without the 1982 war, none of this would have happened," said
Falklands chief executive Chris Simpkins.


Before the conflict, the population numbered about 1,800 and
seemed to shrink with every Europe-bound ship.


"The islands were fading," Simpkins said.


Today, there are nearly 3,000 islanders plus the Mount Pleasant
British base where, according to commanders, a rotation of 1,200
military members and their families live.


The British territory has also attracted immigrants from more
than 60 countries, including Argentina.


"It is terrible to say it, because of the loss of life, but the
war was good for the Falklands," said Jenny Luxton, a 57-year-old
islander.


Fishing now accounts for half of the islands' income, although
the flag still bears a sheep, a sign of the traditional industry.


And the countryside still bears the scars of war.


Among the one million sheep, one million geese, and one million
ducks that dot the landscape are some 25,000 land mines. Signs
warning, "Danger, Mines," are as common as the chilly polar
winds.


The white sands of Surf Bay are met by turquoise waters home to
multicolored birds. The scene could serve as a postcard except
for the warning of nearby mines and the roar of a military plane
overhead.


On the outskirts of Stanley visitors can still see the remnants
of Argentine bunkers. To enter is to step back to 1982 to find
shoes, canon rubble, ration tins, candy wrappers and even bones
of ewes eaten by the soldiers.


Near the town of Darwin is an Argentine cemetery with 230
crosses, only 101 of which bear names of the fallen. The rest say
"Argentine soldier known only to God."


And locals still tell stories about the invasion, and their
resistance to the Argentine forces.


"We were all very frightened. We wished for a horrible, windy
night, one of those nights with horizontal winds. But it was a
perfect day for an invasion," said resident Graham Bound.


Isobel Castle, who in 1982 worked in Port Stanley's only
supermarket has kept the letters sent by hungry Argentine
conscripts begging for food.


"What would you do? You feed somebody that could be your enemy,
or you deny food to a human being," asked Bound.


One local bar hung an Argentine rifle, surrounded by British
flags, over the bar like a trophy. Churches honor those killed
with monuments.


Others have kept Argentine propaganda pamphlets promising island
residents the "right to live free" -- written by a military
junta.


And the veterans who visit the island remember as well.


Two, one British and one Argentine arrived on the same plane and
shared similar memories of their comrades who were killed in the
fighting or killed themselves after it, haunted by the horrors of
war.


Now, they shared a table at a local restaurant.


"Twenty-five years ago I would not have sat at a table with you,
no way," Argentine Guillermo Diaz told retired British sergeant
Tom Leadbitter.

