

The British press were largely supportive of the country's
diplomatic actions against Iran on Thursday as the Gulf state
held 15 British sailors in an escalating row.


Iran prompted an angry British condemnation on Wednesday after
showing footage of the eight sailors and seven marines on Iranian
television, in which the only woman among them apparently
admitted that the group had trespassed into Iranian waters.


Britain insists the group were on a "routine" anti-smuggling
operation inside Iraqi waters when they were seized at gunpoint
in the northern Gulf.


"Given the difficulties of dealing with the Iranian regime
generally, and the dangerous volatility of the region, it is hard
to fault the government's approach," The Independent's editorial
read.


"It has tried softly-softly; it has applied pressure
incrementally, and it has made efforts, largely successful, to
garner international support."


Even The Daily Telegraph, normally a government critic, broadly
backed Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett's efforts at diplomacy.


"Faced with ... complexities, and the weakness of its position in
dealing with an action redolent of a rogue state, the government
has sensibly chosen an incremental approach," the Telegraph's
editorial read.


It continued: "It is unclear what the Iranians hope to gain by
their latest outrage ... All it does is isolate Iran further."


Similarly, the left-wing Daily Mirror tabloid backed the
government's patient diplomacy, writing in its editorial: "The
kidnapping of Royal Navy personnel shames Tehran and will further
isolate its Islamic regime."


"The sooner Iran releases them, the better for everyone. But
patient diplomacy, not sending a gunboat, is the only way
forward."


The Times, meanwhile, encouraged the government to continue its
strategy in dealing with Iran.


"The belated robustness exhibited by ministers in the past two
days may have convinced those who hold sway in Tehran that a
prolonged hostage crisis would do more damage to Iran than it
would inflict on Britain," the paper's editorial commented.


"It has taken a stronger British stance to secure progress so
far. That approach must not slacken."


Of the major papers, the only one critical of the government was
the Daily Mail, which lamented: "The bitter fact remains ... that
the Iranians know they will get away with it because there is
little that Britian can effectively do."


"For the inescapable truth is that our involvement in the Iraq
debacle has made it inconceivable that this country ... would,
except in the most extreme circumstances, risk another military
incursion into a Muslim country."


According to The Guardian, the row has provided evidence that
Iran -- which is at a standoff with the West over its
controversial nuclear enrichment programme, as well -- should not
be allowed to make a nuclear bomb.


"What better argument could you make against Iran acquiring
nuclear weapons, and the effect it would have on proxies in the
Middle East, than the one that is being made by Iran's
conventional forces and their commanders?" the paper's editorial
asked.

