

Shortly after Indonesian police arrested suspects in the 2005
Bali bombings, five senior members of the extremist group Jemaah
Islamiyah (JI) were secretly flown to a safehouse on the resort
island.


There, they engaged the suspects -- all junior members of JI --
in a series of sometimes heated ideological sparring sessions in
an attempt to convince them violence is not the way forward,
police say.


For about a week, police interrogators kept themselves out of
sight, allowing the senior members, who had agreed to work with
the government, time to establish a psychological beach-head.


"Sometimes they debate the whole night," said Senior
Superintendent Tito Karnavian, intelligence chief of Detachment
88, an elite US-trained unit of the Indonesian police involved in
the operation.


"When their Islamic argument is already defeated, then it's easy
for us. Then we enter," Karnavian told reporters here on the
sidelines of the Global Security Asia Conference on domestic
security threats.


The tactic signals a broadening of Indonesia's efforts in the
fight against extremists like the militants from JI, which has
been blamed for a series of deadly bombings in Indonesia,
including the 2002 and 2005 Bali attacks.


The police force is no longer interested only in dismantling
militant networks -- they now are making an effort to
rehabilitate suspects in custody and prevent future attacks
through religious education, Karnavian said.


Indonesia has paid a heavy price for its failure to fully
recognise the depth of the presence of home-grown and
internationally-allied groups like JI until they began their
attacks in 2000, he noted.


A total of 202 people, mostly foreigners, were killed in the 2002
attack on the resort island. Another 20 bystanders were killed in
the 2005 suicide bombings.


With the help of international police, Indonesia initially moved
against JI and other militant networks through traditional
investigative work and raids.


"Our strategy had been developed due to a series of major
attacks, so the strategy was 'fire brigade' -- how to reveal (the
network) very quickly," Karnavian said.


"But having analysed that, it was not enough. The more we
uncovered the network, we were surprised at its extent."


Two Malaysians, Azahari Husin and Noordin Mohammad Top, were
allegedly key masterminds of JI attacks, but experts now believe
they subsequently split off to form a more hardline group.


Azahari died in an Indonesian police raid in 2005 and Noordin
remains on the run.


Rohan Gunaratna, head of the International Centre for Political
Violence and Terrorism Research at Singapore's Nanyang
Technological University, told the conference that Indonesia
needed an ideological victory over hardline Muslims.


"Unless we target their ideology and we counter the false belief
system that has been generated... we will always face the threat
of terrorism," he said.


The Indonesian police gradually shifted their approach over the
past two years, Karnavian said.


He said armed militants in Sulawesi island's religiously divided
district of Poso, and on Ambon island, are now dealt with by
directly addressing the "root causes" of the problem -- religious
conflict, poverty and lack of education.


But police have taken a different approach to JI because of its
international links.


One tactic is to convince moderate Muslims to denounce the
militants and counter extremist ideology through education.


"We go to the Islamic boarding schools. The government is working
with the organisation of Islamic scholars to discuss issues,"
Karnavian said.


Militants are identified through their rank in the organisation's
hierarchy, which is based on knowledge of Islam, the extent of
their training in camps in the southern Philippines or
Afghanistan, and the year they "graduated".


Senior militants are usually harder to reform than junior
members. If a junior is arrested, reformed senior operatives are
sent to "neutralise" their ideology, as with the suspects in the
second Bali bombings, he said.


Of the 300 JI members arrested, Karnavian said 50 of them are
senior and of those, about 10 to 20 of them have been
successfully won over to moderate Islam and are helping the
government.


"We can use them," he said. "They respect seniority very much."


Winning over arrested militants does not exculpate them from
their act, he stressed, adding that those found guilty in
connection with the 2005 Bali attacks have been jailed.


Instead, it helps reassure the government that they will not
influence fellow prisoners or other people when they finish
serving their term, he said.

