

The dollar eased back slightly in Asian trade Thursday as the
market awaited key US economic growth figures after mixed remarks
from US Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, dealers said.


They said the market remained on edge ahead of US fourth-quarter
economic growth figures and after a spike in oil prices fuelled
by jitters over tensions between Iran and the West.


The dollar slipped to 116.75 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
116.85 in New York late Wednesday.


The euro edged up to 1.3318 dollars from 1.3312 but dipped to
155.43 yen from 155.50.


"The dollar eased back following Bernanke's testimony," said
Yosuke Hosokawa, head of the forex division at Chuo Mitsui Trust
Bank.


Bernanke said inflation remained a concern for policymakers and
that the outlook for the housing market was uncertain although
the impact of trouble in the sub- prime mortgages had not spread
into the wider economy.


"The market might have expected a much more cautious tone from
Bernanke," said Hosokawa.


"Of course we expected that the Fed would not tone down its
vigilant position on inflation but if we look at economic
indicators, the US economy is not so strong," he added.


Dealers said the comments had dampened expectations of a near-
term interest rate cut somewhat but many continue to see lower
rates as likely.


"Traders continue to price (in) almost 50 basis points of Fed
rate cuts by year- end and so it's hard to see significant dollar
gains while this remains the case," noted National Australia Bank
strategist John Kyriakopoulos.


"This reflects the perception that the Fed might be too
optimistic on the growth outlook," he added.


US data showed new orders for durable goods rose 2.5 percent in
February, after declining by a revised 9.3 percent in January --
the sharpest one-month fall since June 2000.


The figures fuelled market nervousness ahead of the release of
the final estimate of US fourth quarter gross domestic product
growth later Thursday.


Dealers shrugged off moves by US senators to introduce laws to
counter "currency manipulation" by China and Japan.


"This won't happen. Japan is not intervening to keep a weaker
yen. Besides, the weaker yen keeps the Japanese economy robust,
which in turn benefits the US economy," said Hosokawa of Chuo
Mitsui Trust.

