

Australia captain Ricky Ponting has said talk of opposition teams
having no fear of the world champions will be nothing more than
hot air unless they perform on the pitch.


Bidding for an unprecendented third World Cup title in a row,
Australia began their second phase Super Eight campaign with a
commanding 103-run win against hosts the West Indies here
Wednesday, in a match spread over two days because of rain.


It was a far cry from the form that saw Australia lose five one-
dayers in a row - two at home to England in the CB series final
and three on the trot to New Zealand in last month's Chappell-
Hadlee campaign.


This latest success meant Australia, who won all their matches at
the 2003 World Cup, had made it four wins out of four so far in
this edition.


"You hear about other sides saying they don't fear us, don't fear
anything we have to offer," Ponting told reporters at the Sir
Vivian Richards Stadium after a victory set up by Matthew
Hayden's Australian World Cup record 158.


"It's all right saying that, but you have to go out there and
play a certain brand of cricket to back that up. So far they
haven't done that."


Ponting, clearly amused by the way perceptions of Australia had
altered in such a short space of time, added: "Two weeks ago
everyone said we weren't frightening. All of a sudden now we are
again - it's a funny game.


"Our squad hasn't changed in that time.


"We have to keep stretching ourselves, and if we keep working
hard I can't see any reason why we can't keep improving through
this tournament.


"We've started pretty well - and I think we've made a few
statements along the way."


Australia have yet to be involved in a tight finish at this
tournament having piled up more than 300 in each of their games
with their narrowest margin of victory a still sizeable 83-run
success against world number ones South Africa on Saturday.


But Ponting insisted Australia raised their game in a tough
encounter.


"We've been able to beat teams pretty comfortably over the years,
but one thing about us is that when the close games have come
around that is when we've been at our absolute best.


"There are a lot of champion players in this side who are at
their best when it gets tight.


"I'm very confident we have absolutely all bases covered in this
squad."


Australia since March last year have conceded the four highest
totals by teams batting second in one-day internationals.


But Ponting said opponents risked putting themselves under
immense pressure if they opted to field on winning the toss.


"It is Australia's favourite way of playing, to bat first. There
are a lot of teams around the world who are favouring batting
second, especially in day games.


"Generally in day games, the conditions stay pretty even - the
wicket doesn't deteriorate much - and they feel if they can do
some damage with the new ball that is their best chance of
winning.


"But the flip side of that is if you go in and post a big total
it is going to take some exceptionally good batting to chase down
the score.


"Even if they get off to a good start if they lose one or two
wickets it can change very quickly. That is the pressure they are
putting themselves under by bowling first."


Australia's next match is on Saturday against Bangladesh, who
caused one of the biggest upsets in cricket history by defeating
Ponting's men two years ago in a one-day international in
Cardiff.

