

Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) opposition leader Jean-Pierre
Bemba on Wednesday said that members of his personal militia were
beginning to join the regular army on his orders.


His refusal to reintegrate his troops led to bloody clashes in
the capital Kinshasa last week in which 163 people died, and
prompted the government to issue a warrant for his arrest on
charges of treason.


In a statement signed by his spokesman, Moise Musangana, the
former vice- president confirmed "the integration by the general
staff of the FARDC (DRC army) of his bodyguards deployed in the
towns of Gbadolite and Gemena".


The statement also acknowledged the discovery of a huge quantity
of weapons by government troops in a drinks factory in Gbadolite,
in the northwestern province of Equateur, Bemba's home province.


Lieutenant Colonel Didier Rancher, military spokesman for the
United Nations mission in DRC, said 677 weapons and hundreds of
crates of ammunition were found in an arsenal near a base of
Bemba loyalists.


The militia there remained quiet during last week's fighting, and
the ministry of defence said on Tuesday that they had begun to
rejoin the army.


Many of Bemba's guard have begun showing up at military camps in
the Equateur region, while 140 reported to UN headquarters in
Kinshasa. About 200 have been arrested and sent to prison, DRC
and UN sources said.


In the statement, Bemba said he had asked the UN representative
in the DRC, William Lacy Swing, to "take all necessary
arrangements to ensure the integration" of his troops in
Gbadolite and Gemena.


A UN source welcomed the announcement, saying: "We have been
calling for years for the integration of FARDC and former rebels,
who should have given up their arsenal a long time ago."


Speaking on condition of anonymity, he added: "This kind of
announcement should have been made before the violence and not
after."


Bemba also said the weapons found in the two villages were put
under supervision by the UN in 2003 and were controlled by an
army unit in 2004.


Among the weapons found were mortars of up to 120 millimetre
calibre, anti- aircraft guns and other artillery, rocket-
launchers, machineguns and dozens of assault rifles, he said.


In eastern districts of Kinshasa, government troops continued
their search for the remnants of Bemba's militia, police said,
setting up roadblocks in the Kingabwa quarter.


Meanwhile, diplomatic sources said Bemba, who sought shelter in
the South African embassy during last week's clashes, could be
flown to Portugal for treatment on a leg injury sustained when he
fell down stairs in December.


President Joseph Kabila left for Tanzania on Wednesday for a
special summit of the 14-nation Southern African Development
Community, where the crisis in his country was high on the
agenda.


About 2,000 government troops overcame 700 fighters loyal to
Bemba, also a former rebel leader and failed presidential
candidate, in last week's fighting.


On Friday, Kabila's government issued an arrest warrant against
him on charges of treason and maintaining a militia.


In theory Bemba enjoys parliamentary immunity by virtue of his
seat in the senate. That immunity can only be lifted by
parliament.


South Africa's Deputy Foreign Minister Aziz Pahad has said Bemba
could stay at the embassy as long as he liked, but his supporters
have told AFP they would like to see him safely out of the
country, at least for the moment.


Bemba himself told the French daily Le Monde on Monday that he
was prepared to go into exile if his security could not be
guaranteed by Kinshasa.


The UN mission in DRC on Wednesday called for dialogue between
the government and opposition.


It said security should now be maintained by police and not the
military, and disciplinary measures should be taken against
soldiers found to have participated in looting or other crimes.

