

Steven Gerrard saved England's blushes with a brilliant double to
see off plucky Andorra 3-0 in Barcelona.


And in Bari world champions Italy moved themselves back into
contention in Group B with a 2-0 victory over previous leaders
Scotland in Bari while Northern Ireland are the new shock leaders
in Group F after David Healy's double sunk Sweden in Belfast.


England coach Steve McClaren must have been fearing the worst as
his lacklustre side turned around at the break at 0-0, just four
days after their dismal Group E stalemate in Israel.


But Gerrard took the bulls by the horns in the second period,
volleying home from Wayne Rooney's deft flick after 54 minutes
before finishing off his own move following a pair of one-twos
with Stewart Downing and Jermain Defoe.


The Liverpool captain also played the crucial through ball that
set up the third goal, poked over the line by debutant Preston
forward David Nugent after Defoe's initial shot squirmed under
goalkeeper Koldo Alvarez's body.


Gerrard was the only bright spark for England but after the game
he stuck up for his under-fire team-mates.


"The fans were expecting us to win 4/5/6-0 but it's not as easy
as that - they got a lot of men behind the ball," he said.


"We had to show a lot of character when it was 0-0 at half time
but in the second half we showed character and moved the ball
quicker.


"They weren't as fit as us and eventually we wore them down."


But despite his assertions, the fans in Espanyol's stadium, where
Andorra chose to stage this match as their own grounds are not up
to UEFA standards, were not convinced and jeered the team at
half-time and at the final whistle. There were also chants of
'McClaren out' during the second period.


The embattled England manager reflected: "You're not going to
please everybody - but what matters is what happens in the
dressing room and on the pitch. The players gave everything, they
kept going, and showed guts and eventually got the reward.


"I can understand the fans' frustration after the disappointment
against Israel.


"We came here to win and we've done that. We're still in a good
position but still have a lot to do."


Despite the fairly lop-sided victory, England are fourth in their
group, two points off leaders Croatia but behind Israel, who
thrashed Estonia 4-0 in Tel Aviv, and Russia on goal difference.
Croatia and Russia also have a game in hand.


Fiorentina striker Luca Toni scored both goals as Italy moved to
within two points of the Scots and France, who had the day off
from qualification duty.


It means the Italians have successfully bounced back from their
difficult start to their qualification quest when they picked up
just one point from their first two games.


Italy coach Roberto Donadoni said: "These great players gave the
reply that was required. All the rest is just useless chit-chat.
I'm thinking now of the next game against Lithuania, a game we
have to win."


Italy are now just two points behind Scotland, France and
Ukraine, who beat Lithuania 1-0 in Odessa.


In Belfast Johan Elmander gave Sweden the lead after a lightning
counter-attack by the visitors but Lawrie Sanchez's rapidly
improving side hit back just four minutes after the opener.


And Healy scored the winner in the second half as the Irish moved
a point above their visitors at the top of the group.


It has been a remarkable turnaround for Sanchez who was under
pressure to resign or be sacked during his side's dreadful World
Cup qualification campaign. A shock win over England saved him
then and he is reaping the benefits now having also guided his
outfit to victory over Spain in this campaign.


Andres Iniesta struck nine minutes from time as Spain pulled
themselves to within four points of top spot in the group with a
1-0 win at home to Iceland.


Spain dominated from start to finish but Luis Aragones's men were
releived to finally break the deadlock with time running out.


The Netherlands maintained their grip on Group G with a 1-0 win
at Slovenia courtesy of Barcelona full-back Giovanni van
Bronckhurst's strike four minutes from time.


Romania leap-frogged Bulgaria into second spot in the group with
a 3-0 win over Luxembourg while their Balkan neighbours could
only draw 0-0 at hoe to Albania.

