

West Indian legend Vivian Richards on Thursday offered to help
India's cricketers to develop their mental toughness after what
he called their "mind- boggling" ouster from the World Cup.


Richards, widely regarded as the most destructive batsman in
history, said a lack of self-belief had sent India crashing to
their worst World Cup performance since the 1979 edition in
England.


India -- the 1983 champions and 2003 runners-up -- were stunned
by Bangladesh in their opening match before suffering a second
defeat against Sri Lanka to be knocked out of the tournament.


"Like many of their fans, I find India's ouster from the
tournament as mind- boggling," Richards, 55, wrote in a
syndicated column that appeared in Indian newspapers.


"I would not blame the team management for this debacle, but
there has to be some reason why a team as supremely talented as
India does not achieve more success.


"The reasons have less to do with talent and potential and more
to do with mental strength. Each player, especially the
experienced one, is responsible for himself and capable of self-
training and managing his mental preparation.


"These are aspects that come from within, so blaming coach Greg
Chappell or even captain Rahul Dravid is not going to take Indian
cricket ahead.


"I would certainly like to help India in this aspect of their
preparation if asked to.


"I have always enjoyed a challenge as a player, and would enjoy
the challenge of instilling self-belief and confidence in a group
of players as talented and promising as the Indians."


Richards, who helped the West Indies win the first two World Cups
in 1975 and 1979, said the Indians would do well to learn lesson
from his team's experiences.


"I remember we were devastated when we lost the 1983 World Cup
final (to India)," he wrote.


"That is why we came in full force and with great intent to win
when we toured India later that year. We needed to prove to the
world and more importantly to ourselves, that we were the best
team."


That year, Clive Lloyd's men avenged the World Cup defeat with a
3-0 victory in the six-Test series and blanked the hosts 5-0 in
the one-dayers.


Richards said he hoped India would bounce back on the tour of
Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three one-dayers.


"They should regroup and convince everyone that what happened in
Port-of-Spain was a blip, and nine times out of 10 there can be
only one winner in an India- Bangladesh encounter," he wrote.


"Having said that, we must also acknowledge that the Bangladeshis
are a talented, fast-improving bunch. They remind me of the Sri
Lankans in the late 1980s, and therefore cannot be considered
pushovers."


India's cricket chiefs, who are due to discuss the World Cup
debacle in Mumbai on April 6 and 7, declined to commit themselves
with respect to Richards' offer of assistance.


"We will decide on the future course of action in Mumbai," said
Indian cricket board secretary Niranjan Shah.


The brain-storming session is to include first-hand accounts from
Chappell and Dravid as well as a discussion with former captains
like Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev.


Richards, who retired in 1992 after being overlooked for the
World Cup that year, scored 8,540 runs in 121 Tests at an average
of 50.23 with 24 centuries.


He also made 6,721 runs in 187 one-dayers at 47.00 with 11
hundreds.

