

The Dallas Mavericks' 60th win of the National Basketball
Association season was a painful one as star Dirk Nowitzki
suffered a mild ankle sprain.


Jason Terry scored 27 points to lead the Mavericks to their 60th
win of the season and eighth straight, a 105-103 triumph over the
Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday.


Most Valuable Player candidate Nowitzki started the game on fire,
scoring 17 points in only 16 minutes, but rolled his left ankle
and left the game with 3:42 remaining in the second quarter.


Nowtizki tried to play at the beginning of the third quarter, but
left the game for good after just one minute. The injury did not
appear to be serious.


"He should be OK," Dallas coach Avery Johnson said. "We'll get
him some treatment tomorrow. We don't think this is a long-term
deal."


"Basically it was just the bone spurs hitting together," Nowitzki
said. "I walked it off right there in the second quarter. I tried
to loosen it up at half time but it wasn't getting loose. There's
really no need right now to make things worse at this point in
the season."


Fellow All-Star Josh Howard left the game with just over two
minutes remaining in the game with an apparent ankle injury. The
26-year old forward returned to finish the game, but was limping
noticeably.


Terry picked up the slack for the Mavericks, connecting on
10-of-17 field-goal attempts and dishing out five assists.
Veteran swingman Jerry Stackhouse came off the bench to score 21
points, including five 3-pointers.


"To get 60 or anything above 60 wins in the Western Conference is
tough," Johnson said. "You talk about 60, that is pretty
impressive, especially the way we started (0-4).


"I'm really excited about this," Johnson said. "This is what you
call a gutsy win. If the word 'gutsy' is in the dictionary, then
the Mavericks that were on the floor tonight, all their pictures
are next to it."


Michael Redd scored 34 points on 14-of-19 shooting to lead the
Bucks but failed to score in the fourth quarter and missed a
layup with less than 10 seconds left that would have tied the
game.

