

On a large tract of land in Thailand's dusty northeast, Suwit
Yotongyot hopes to make a fortune on jatropha, a plant with a
poisonous nut that might hold the key to the nation's energy
troubles.


The flowering bush has long been used as live fencing in dry
regions around the world.


But it's the deadly black nuts that have caught the attention of
scientists who say that it could help produce biodiesel and ease
Thailand's reliance on imported oil.


The nuts are more than 30 percent oil, which burns with a clear
flame, producing a fraction of the emissions of traditional
diesel. As a bonus, the oil can be used in simple diesel engines
without refining, just by mixing it with fuel.


Suwit says the bushes are easy to grow, start producing nuts
quickly, and are resistant to drought -- a key features in
Thailand's arid northeast where rains are often inadequate.


Now he's trying to convince local villagers to use jatropha oil
as fuel for their tractors as it is cheaper than normal diesel.


"It will help villagers reduce their costs when they're farming
their agricultural products," said Suwit, a former adviser to the
argiculture ministry.


Eventually, he hopes Thailand will follow India, Indonesia and
the Philippines in pursuing development of jatropha to turn the
nut into a viable fuel source.


Phichai Tinsuntisook, a businessman who heads the Renewable
Energy Industry Club, said jatropha was more promising as a fuel
than palm oil, which countries around the region are also
investigating as an alternative energy source.


"Jatropha oil can go directly into a tractor, while direct use of
palm oil will harm the engine," he said.


Residue from the pressed nuts can also be burned for fuel, he
said, citing research that found cake from 2,000 acres (800
hectares) of pressed nuts could power a one-Megawat electricity
plant -- enough for 400 families, he said.


But Thailand, like other countries in the region, faces a
chicken-or-egg issue in promoting jatropha.


Farmers are reluctant to grow it, because there's no market for
its use. But government is reluctant to promote because of the
small supply of nuts, he said.


Consequently, Thailand has only 20,000 acres (8,000 hectares) are
planted with jatropha, mainly in the arid northeast and north.


The government may be changing its tune. Both ousted prime
minister Thaksin Shinawatra and his army-installed successor,
Surayud Chulanont, have aggressively searched for new energy
sources.


Thailand imports almost all the oil it needs for energy, making
it especially vulnerable to rising oil prices.


The country is embarking on an ambitious series of dam projects
across the border in military-ruled Myanmar, in a bid to generate
hydro-electricity that would be brought back home.


Thailand also has major natural gas interests in Myanmar, and is
always looking for more.


The kingdom has signed a deal with two Japanese companies to look
into building a wind farm off its southern coast, and has
investigated building a power plant that would run off waste from
coconut trees.


Hundreds of gas stations in Bangkok already sell gasohol that is
10 percent ethanol and slightly cheaper than regular gas.


With global oil prices unlikely to go very far down, Phichai says
Thailand also needs to invest in biodiesel.


"The energy crisis will become a bigger and bigger problem in the
future, and jatropha is the alternative choice," he said. "The
country can save money from importing oil and protect the
environment at the same time."

