

Britain and Iran are locked in a stand-off over the Iranian
navy's seizure of 15 British military personnel last Friday in a
waterway between Iraq and Iran.


Here is an updated timeline of events in the mounting crisis.


Friday, March 23


-- Britain's Ministry of Defence announces that 15 British
sailors and marines inspecting a merchant ship in Iraqi waters
have been seized at gunpoint by personnel aboard Iranian navy
ships.


-- The ministry says the HMS Cornwall, the frigate which
supported the inspection carried out by the sailors on two boats,
was operating within the scope of UN Security Council resolution
1723.


-- Iran's ambassador in London, Rasoul Movahedian, is summoned to
the Foreign Office.


-- British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett says London is
demanding the immediate return of the group as well as a
"complete explanation" from Tehran.


-- Iran's foreign ministry says the sailors illegally entered
Iranian territorial waters and were arrested by border guards
"for investigation and questioning."


Saturday, March 24


-- The semi-official Fars news agency says the sailors and
marines have been transferred to the capital Tehran to explain
their actions. It reveals that one is a woman.


-- An Iranian official tells the Fars agency that the authorities
have proof from the seized vessels' navigation equipment that the
sailors knowingly entered Iranian waters.


-- Armed forces general staff spokesman General Alireza Afshar
says the 15 British service personnel admitted to violating its
territorial waters, rejecting demands from London for their swift
release.


Sunday, March 25


-- Britain's ambassador to Tehran, Geoffrey Adams, asks to meet
with the 15 and demands their immediate release.


-- Prime Minister Tony Blair calls their seizure "unjustified and
wrong."


-- Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki says the 15 stand
accused of "illegal entry" into the country's territorial waters


Monday, March 26


-- Iran's deputy foreign minister Mehdi Mostafavi says the
Britons are being interrogated and will have to answer to
allegations they violated Iranian waters


-- Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari says the group was
seized in Iraqi not Iranian waters as maintained by Tehran


Tuesday, March 27


-- Tony Blair warns Iran that the standoff would enter a
"different phase" if diplomatic efforts to secure their release
failed.


-- In Ankara, Margaret Beckett calls on Iran to quickly release
the group and allow British diplomats access to them, before
cutting short her visit to Turkey to brief the British parliament
on the absence of any progress


Wednesday, March 28


-- Britain releases evidence it says proves the Britons were in
Iraqi waters when seized and announces a freeze on official
contacts with Iran. Tony Blair pledges to "ratchet up" pressure
on Tehran.


-- In Tehran, the Iranian foreign ministry says it will release
the only woman among the captives, sailor Faye Turney, in one or
two days.


-- Iranian television broadcasts the first footage of the sailors
and marines in which Turney says "Obviously we trespassed in the
(Iranian) waters."


-- Iran releases a letter, purportedly written by 26-year-old
Turney to her family, in which she said she had apologised to the
Iranians for trespassing.


-- Britain condemns Iran for publishing the letter and for airing
the footage and voices concerns about possible coercion.


-- US President George W. Bush gives full backing to Britain over
the crisis while US aircraft carriers continue exercises in the
Gulf near Iran that Washington says are unrelated to the stand-
off.


-- Britain says the Iranian promise to release just Turney is
"not good enough" and has had no direct confirmation from Iranian
officials that they will be granted consular access to the
sailors and marines.

