

US senators warned Wednesday that new laws could be adopted
against China and Japan to counter moves by the Asian giants to
keep the value of their currencies low, which the lawmakers said
is hurting the US economy.


Matching their words with action, legislation was introduced in
the Senate Wednesday requiring Washington to work with other
countries to stop the Japanese government from "manipulating" the
yen.


In the coming weeks, another measure could be proposed seeking
tough action against China for allegedly undervaluing the yuan.


The bipartisan China bill will be "well-crafted legislation --
WTO-compliant and strong and effective -- (and) is likely to pass
with a veto-proof margin during this Congress," its chief
proponent, Democratic Senator Charles Schumer, told a
congressional hearing on China's currency policy Wednesday.


Schumer had led an unprecedented effort in the last Republican-
dominated Congress by introducing a bill to slap punitive tariffs
on Chinese imports if it did not revalue its currency.


The bill surprisingly won two-thirds support in the Senate in a
procedural vote. But it was held back to give Beijing time to
undertake currency reforms.


"But now the possibility for legislation in the 110th Congress is
real, because the number of people who will vote for strong
legislation exceeds the number of people who would have voted for
a tariff,"  Schumer said.


Senior Republican Senator Chuck Grassley charged that "China has
engaged in large-scale intervention to restrict appreciation of
its currency" and called for an "overhaul" of US laws pertaining
to oversight of global currency exchange rates.


Some lawmakers believe that Beijing has undervalued its currency
by up to 40 percent in order to boost its exports, and that this
is a key reason for the snowballing bilateral US trade deficit.


Beijing ended a decade-long peg to the dollar in 2005 in favor of
a managed float at that time, revaluing the currency with
reference to a basket of currencies.


Since then, the yuan has appreciated against the greenback by
about 6.6 percent. But lawmakers said it hardly made a dent to
the US trade deficit with China, 232 billion dollars in 2006.


"Some will say that China's currency has appreciated against the
dollar.  But overall, on a trade-weighted basis, the value of
China's currency remains largely unchanged since 2005 levels,"
said Democratic Senator Max Baucus, who chaired the hearing of
the Senate finance committee.


Another Democratic senator, Debbie Stabenow, introduced
legislation Wednesday to stop the Japanese government from
participating in what she called the unfair trade practice of
manipulating the yen.


The Japan Currency Manipulation Act proposes steps to "prove that
the Japanese manipulate the yen," and would require Washington to
work with other countries to put a stop to such practices.


"Unfair trade practices, like currency manipulation, that cost
American jobs cannot be allowed to continue, no matter who the
culprit is," Stabenow said.


It is not known how much support legislators would provide to the
bill on Japan, a key ally of the United States, unlike China
which is seen by many Americans as a military and trade rival.


The undervalued yen is "subsidizing" millions of Japanese auto
exports into the United States, Stabenow said.


The Automotive Trade Policy Council, whose members include US
giants General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler, hailed the
proposed legislation.


"It's time for the administration to stop condoning this ...
damaging currency policy ... and start pressuring the Japanese
Government to bring its currency into proper alignment with the
US dollar," said council president Stephen Collins.


According to an industry report, at the current average of 117
yen to the dollar, the Japanese currency's "subsidy" creates a
4,000-dollar cost advantage over US-made cars in a typical four-
door sedan, up to a 12,000 dollar advantage with luxury vehicles.


US-made Japanese vehicles also have an advantage worth thousands
of dollars, the report said.


Automotive trade accounted for two-thirds of the 88 billion
dollar US trade deficit with Japan last year.


A report by an influential think tank in Washington said this
week that the yen is undervalued by 25-30 percent against the US
dollar.

