

Australia Thursday committed 160 million US dollars to launch
what it hopes will become an international fund to protect
forests and fight global warming.


Prime Minister John Howard said the initiative would achieve a
greater reduction in greenhouse gas emissions than if Australia
bowed to pressure and signed up to the Kyoto Protocol.


Australia and the United States are the only two developed
countries that have refused to ratify the landmark Kyoto treaty
and Howard's remarks drew immediate criticism from environmental
groups.


The prime minister said the new initiative would address climate
change by slowing the rate of trees being cut down in countries
in the region such as Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.


"As everybody knows, if you can do that you will reduce
greenhouse gas emissions," he told reporters.


"What this initiative will do, in a shorter period of time, is
make greater contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions
than, in fact, the Kyoto protocol."


The fund is designed to help developing countries stop the
illegal destruction of rainforests, plant new forests and invest
in sustainable forestry.


Australia will invite other nations including Britain, the United
States, Germany, Brazil, New Zealand, Japan and Indonesia to join
the initiative, Howard said in a statement.


"We will also work with international organisations including the
World Bank, and businesses, to reduce emissions from
deforestation and to sustainably manage the world's forests."


Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said he had discussed the plan
with several of the other potential contributors to the fund.


"The sense I've had from the governments we've discussed this
with is that they're very enthusiastic and positive about the
idea," Downer told reporters.


"We are planning to put together an officials level meeting, in
particular with the donor countries in the next three months."


Environmental groups Greenpeace and the Australian Conservation
Foundation welcomed the commitment of funds to fight
deforestation but said it would make more sense for Australia to
sign the Kyoto Protocol.

