

Philippines police prepared to lay charges Thursday against a day
care centre owner who took hostage a busload of his own pupils,
but in the slum where he operated there was sympathy for his
cause.


Armando Ducat is expected to be charged with possession of
illegal weapons and kidnapping after President Gloria Arroyo
ordered authorities to take tough action to prevent copycat
hostage-takings.


But in a response to Ducat's dramatic stunt, which he said was to
highlight rampant poverty, Arroyo said she would tour the
sprawling Parola Compound slum where the children live to see
what could be done for its poor residents.


Ducat, 56, gave himself up late Wednesday after a 10-hour
standoff. He was still in police custody Thursday, but the 32
children were allowed home after medical check-ups.


"We are filing appropriate charges against him in court," said
the police Senior Superintendent Cipriano Querol, spokesman of
the negotiating team that helped end the hostage drama outside
Manila city hall.


Police say Ducat, a wealthy civil engineer and philanthropist
with a record of similar stunts, including holding two Roman
Catholic priests hostage using fake grenades 20 years ago, could
spend the rest of his life in jail.


There was sympathy, though, in the Parola district, a smelly,
crowded slum where he had built a pre-school day care center to
give children a free start in education.


"I was aware that he was frustrated at the way the country was
being run," said Elmer Calleja, a teacher at the now padlocked
Musmos Day Care Center.


"We will go to Manila city hall today to petition for his
release."


In a second hostage-taking incident in Manila in just over two
weeks, Ducat and an accomplice who said they were armed with
grenades and guns took control of the bus loaded with 32 pre-
schoolers and two teachers on a field trip.


As the global news media zoomed in, beaming images of the
standoff around the world, Ducat railed against government
corruption, demanded free housing and education for his pupils
and threatened to explode two grenades if police mounted a rescue
effort.


Querol told local television Thursday police allowed the press to
approach the bus and let Ducat speak on air because it would
"calm" him and lessen the risk he would harm himself or the
children.


"We saw this as a way of easing tensions inside the bus," he
said, while conceding there were "lapses" in controlling the
gathering crowd, elements of which chanted Ducat's name in
support as the crisis neared an end.


"We needed a captive audience for him," Querol added.


But there was only disdain in the local press.


"There ought to be a law -- and in fact there are several laws
that must be slapped against lunatics who like to paint
themselves as champions of the downtrodden," the Philippine Star
said in an editorial.


Arroyo, for her part, said late Wednesday that "despite the
seemingly noble issues being raised in this bizarre drama, this
government shall not stand for prank-terrorism."


She said the suspects "will be treated with the full force of the
law" and said she was ordering a speedy prosecution.


The children, aged between five and seven, were released after
spending the night at a Manila hospital for psychiatric trauma
evaluation, Social Welfare Secretary Esperanza Cabral said.


Cabral said psychiatrists would visit the Parola over the
following months to monitor the recovery of the children, six of
whom she said showed signs of "anxiety" attacks.


Otherwise, "they were unaware of what was going on" and thought
that what happened "was part of the field trip," she added.


"It's a good indication there may not be lasting psychological
effects," she said.


"They knew Mr. Ducat and knew he was a benefactor to their
families. They were also holding toy guns. It was a game as far
as they were concerned."

