

Steven Gerrard pulled England back from the brink of humiliation
as Steve McClaren's side laboured to a 3-0 win over Group E
minnows Andorra in a Euro 2008 qualifier here on Wednesday.


Gerrard's second-half double and a last minute strike by
substitute David Nugent, who bundled the ball over the line after
Koldo Alvarez had fumbled Jermain Defoe's shot, ensured England
emerged with the three points and a respectful enough scoreline.


But in reality it was another woefully disjointed display that
will only have exacerbated the pressure on McClaren as he battles
to salvage his job and England's chances of reaching next year's
finals in Austria and Switzerland.


A training ground injury to Frank Lampard had relieved McClaren
of his main selection dilemma -- whether or not to drop the
Chelsea midfielder.


With the issue resolved by the hairline wrist fracture Lampard
suffered in training earlier this week, Gerrard was restored to
his favoured role at the sharp end of a midfield diamond.


It was the Liverpool captain who provided England's first serious
threat, a long-range effort that swerved dangerously in the
swirling wind and drew a good save from Koldo in the 18th minute.


The Andorra goalkeeper must have been agreeably surprised however
that that was the only save he had to produce in an opening half
hour in which England appeared every bit as devoid of ideas as
they had been in the first half of Saturday's goalless draw in
Israel.


Wayne Rooney's desperation to get back on the goal track for his
country was reflected in the way he grabbed the ball for a 12th
minute free-kick. But so too was his recent form as the dead ball
was curled a good two yards wide from barely 20 yards out.


Andy Johnson was giving the Andorrans more problems. Having
turned his marker before sending a 27th-minute effort narrowly
over, the Everton striker forced Koldo to get down sharply to his
left for his second save of the night, six minutes before the
interval.


Minutes earlier, Stewart Downing had got on the end of Micah
Richards' cross from deep on the right but the Middlesbrough
winger's effort sailed over the bar, sparking the first chorus of
jeers from the England supporters who had braved the miserable
conditions to support their underperforming side.


The start of the second half brought a marked increase in
England's tempo. Hargreaves fired one effort narrowly wide and
Downing forced another good save from Koldo before Gerrard
finally put them ahead, nine minutes after the restart.


The Andorran defence failed to deal with Lennon's cross from the
right and when the ball fell to Rooney, he was able to flick a
sideways pass to Gerrard, who thumped his shot into Koldo's
bottom right-hand corner from the edge of the penalty box.


That should have been the signal for England to relax and begin
to make their superiority tell. Instead, Rooney got himself
embroiled in a spat with Oscar Sonejee that earned him his second
yellow card in as many matches.


The United forward, who will be suspended for the June trip to
Estonia as a result, was hauled off five minutes later to be
replaced by Defoe at the same time as Kieron Dyer came on for the
injured Richards.


The Newcastle midfielder should have doubled England's lead with
just over 20 minutes left, shanking his finish wide from the edge
of the six-yard box after Lennon had wriggled to the byline and
cut the ball back into his path.


Gerrard finally made the result safe 14 minutes before the end,
combining with Defoe in the inside-left channel before slotting a
side-footed shot past Koldo.


Nugent's late strike ensured the scoreline was given a
respectable edge but it came too late to stop the visiting
supporters from spending the closing minutes chanting "we want
McClaren out."


After this display, McClaren's employers at the Football
Association must be moving towards the same conclusion.

