

China announced Thursday its 15th death from bird flu since late
2003, raising concerns about the nation's monitoring standards
after the victim had no reported contact with infected birds.


A 16-year-old youth from Bengbu city, eastern Anhui province,
died on Tuesday night after showing symptoms of the H5N1 strain
of the bird flu on March 17, the Ministry of Health reported in a
statement.


The boy, whose name was given only as Wu, had no history of
contact with dead or sick birds, while no outbreaks of the virus
among animals had been reported in the province, it said.


"This is the 23rd out of 24 human outbreaks in China where we
weren't forewarned by a poultry outbreak," Joanna Brent, the
Beijing-based spokeswoman for the World Health Organisation, told
AFP.


"This is not consistent with what we are seeing around the
world."


The latest fatality brings to 170 the number of people who have
died from bird flu around the world.


In most cases elsewhere around the world, the disease has been
traced to either an outbreak amongst animals or contact between
the victim and dead or sick animals, Brent said.


"China has managed this case very well, but the challenge for
China is to strengthen monitoring and surveillance of the bird
flu among animals," Brent said.


Prior to Wu's death, the WHO said the deadly H5N1 strain of bird
flu had infected 282 people and killed 169 of them, mostly in
Southeast Asia, since 2003.


Indonesia's health ministry also said on Thursday that another
two people in the Southeast Asian nation had died of bird flu.


Scientists say multiple strains of the disease originated in
southern China and spread elsewhere.


They fear the virus could mutate into a form easily spread among
humans, leading to a global pandemic with the potential to kill
millions.


The fear stems from the lessons of past influenza pandemics. One
in 1918, just after the end of World War I, killed 20 million
people worldwide.


Of the 24 human cases of bird flu reported in China since 2003,
15 have resulted in the death of the patient.


Before Wu's death, the most recent case occurred in late February
when a 44 -year-old woman in east China's Fujian province was
confirmed to have contracted the bird flu virus.


The patient, surnamed Li who is still being treated in hospital,
had eaten chicken together with her family before the infection,
but her husband and son have not fallen ill, Xinhua news agency
said.

