

Novak Djokovic sent second-seeded Spaniard Rafael Nadal packing
on Wednesday while Andy Murray advanced courtesy of injured third
seed Andy Roddick at the 6.9 million-dollar Sony Ericsson Open.


Djokovic, the 10th seed, avenged his loss to Nadal in the final
of the ATP Masters Series tournament at Indian Wells earlier this
month with a 6-3, 6-4 triumph that he called the most important
of his career.


He booked a clash with his fellow 19-year-old Murray, the 12th
seed from Scotland who moved on when Roddick retired late in the
first set.


"Certainly I have to say that this is the biggest, and probably
the most important victory in my career, and he's the best player
I ever won against," said the delighted Djokovic, who claimed his
first win over Nadal in three meetings.


Djokovic saved three break points in the final game before
closing out the match with an ace after 1hr 37min.


"I think if you play quarter-finals of Masters Series against No.
2 in the world and you serve for the match, you're pretty
nervous. Especially in that last game," he said. "He was going
for some of the shots, but mostly it was my mistakes and him
really fighting for the ball. He was really running from one end
to the other end of the court."


Nadal followed world No. 1 and top seed Roger Federer of
Switzerland out of the tournament. Federer was shocked in the
fourth round by Argentina's Guillermo Canas, the same player who
ended his 41-match winning streak in the second round at Indian
Wells.


Canas will bid for a semi-final berth on Thursday when he takes
on sixth-seeded Spaniard Tommy Robredo, while seventh-seeded
Croatian Ivan Ljubicic takes on Argentina's Juan Ignacio Chela.


Nadal, 20, was philosophical.


"The world is not just Federer and me," he said. "There's a lot
of good players."


Murray, who was nursing a sore ankle when he lost to Djokovic in
the semi-finals at Indian Wells, led 5-3 after 29 minutes when
Roddick pulled out.


The American had taken treatment before the final game in an
ultimately vain attempt to continue.


"I think the medical term is 'the bottom of my ass hurts,'" said
Roddick, who suffered a strain to his upper left hamstring.


"He hit a volley behind me and I kind of lunged at it and jarred
something. More and more it started becoming like a sharp pain
and then I started feeling it even when I was just kind of
cruising around the court, not even in points."


Murray said he was sorry to see the match end that way.


"I guess anybody would rather get off the court quicker than
longer, but I'd rather it was in normal circumstances," he said.


Even so, Murray was encouraged by his own play.


"I was hitting the ball much better," he said. "I was playing
more aggressive, came to the net a few times. There were some
good volleys, served better - felt like I was moving pretty
well."


It will be the fifth semi-final of the year for Murray, who won
at San Jose and lost in the Doha final as well and reached the
semi-finals at Indian Wells and Memphis.


The injury is another setback for 24-year-old Roddick, who has
yet to claim a title in 2007.


"I never even had a strain in any part of my leg before really
... This is a new one for me," said Roddick, who still hoped to
play in next week's Davis Cup tie against Spain.


On the women's side, 13th seed Serena Williams followed up one
shockingly easy victory with another as she dispatched eighth-
seeded Czech Nicole Vaidisova 6-1, 6-4.


Williams cruised through the first set, but faced triple break
point at 3-4 in the second.


She stormed back to win five straight points - three with aces -
to hold serve and got the break she needed in the next game.


"She did play me tough," Williams said. "I was expecting her to
play exactly the way she played me in the second set. That's what
I was expecting for the match."


Williams, who had reprised her Australian Open finals rout of
Russian Maria Sharapova in the fourth round, booked a semi-final
clash with Israel's Shahar Peer.


Peer, the 14th seed, defeated Tathiana Garbin of Italy 6-0, 6-3
to reach her first career Tier I semi-final.


"I'm really happy. It's the first time getting to the semi-final
in a big tournament and I was waiting for it long time," Peer
said.


The other semi-final will match world number one Justine Henin of
Belgium and Russia's Anna Chakvetadze.

