

The sinking of the cruiser General Belgrano by a British nuclear-
powered submarine with the loss of 323 Argentine lives still
stirs controversy, 25 years after the Falklands War.


Argentine lawyers have argued that the warship was outside of the
200-mile (322 kilometre) exclusion zone established by British
forces around the archipelago when it was sunk on May 2, 1982.


But they have failed to win their case that British committed a
"war crime" when the HMS Conqueror fired conventional torpedoes
into the Belgrano, a World War II-era warship.


However, in July 2000, the European Court of Human Rights
rejected a claim for compensation on a technicality, saying it
should have been filed six months after the warship sank.


It was the first serious attack on the Argentine navy by the
British since the conflict began with Argentina's invasion of the
disputed Falkland islands on April 2, 1982.


It was also the biggest single loss of life in the 10-week war.


Clive Ponting, a senior Ministry of Defence civil servant, leaked
documents saying the cruiser had been moving away from the
islands. He was later tried under the Official Secrets Act, but
found not guilty.


Retired General Jeremy Moore, who was the commander of the land
forces, supported the attack during an anniversary interview with
AFP.


"The fact that she was steaming in that direction made not the
slightest difference to the threat she posed. She could turn
around at any moment. She was still posing a threat to our
people," he said.


But the controversy was fuelled by the The Sun mass-circulation
newspaper in Britain, which ran the story about the cruiser's
sinking under the banner headline: "GOTCHA." It was pulled from
later editions.


Historian Lawrence Freedman, writing in "The Official History of
the Falklands Campaign," said the decision to sink the warship --
the first and only such incident involving a nuclear-powered
submarine -- was a military one.


It had been argued at the time that prime minister Margaret
Thatcher had ordered the destruction of the Belgrano to sabotage
a peace plan.


"It is just not true, there is no evidence, " said Freedman, a
professor of war studies at King's College, London.


He described how the decision actually resulted from the fact
that Britain was at war and felt vulnerable to an Argentine
attack.


He noted that Britain would have preferred to have sunk an
aircraft carrier but had been unable to find one.

