

Britain's four-man pursuit team which has been ripping up the
World Cup track boards this season could have a fight on their
hands at the world track cycling championships.


The team pursuit, in which defending champions Australia also
hold the Olympic title and world record, is the event most likely
to thrill here Friday when four gold medals are on offer at the
brand new Palma Arena.


Australia have been keeping their rivals guessing by keeping
their usual low profile in the four-leg World Cup season, which
Britain have dominated up to now.


But come Friday Australia will unleash a largely proven quartet
on the reputedly fast boards here in the hope they can show the
on-form Brits who the kings of the 16-lap race really are.


"I believe we have a slightly better team than last year, so
while not being over-confident we believe we'll be around the
mark," Australia's endurance coach, Ian McKenzie, told AFP.


If that's the case, Britain's hopes of regaining the crown they
lost to their southern hemisphere rivals in Bordeaux could be
slightly more problematic than they thought.


Last year, as the underdogs, Peter Dawson, Matthew Goss, Stephen
Wooldridge and Mark Jamieson combined to strike gold for the
Aussies.


In the absence of Wooldridge, whose wife is set to give birth,
Dawson, Goss and Jamieson will line up with an as yet unnamed
fourth team-mate for the defence of their crown.


That last spot will go to either Zakkari Dempster or Phillip
Thuaux, although performances in qualifying could prompt other
changes in later rounds.


Britain have recently been setting the pace having welcomed back
Olympic individual pursuit champion Bradley Wiggins with open
arms.


The Belgian-born Englishman, who won three Olympic medals in
Athens, is back on the track after a long absence with a view to
perfecting his form for Beijing.


Wiggins proved during the Manchester leg of the World Cup in
February he has lost none of his pursuit powers, winning the
individual and contributing to the team's gold ahead of Russia.


Britain also set a relatively rare sub-four minute time
(3:59.876) during qualifying there.


But McKenzie is happy for Australia to again go into Friday's
showdown as the underdogs: "We don't expect to win.
Realistically, seeing what the British have done recently at the
World Cup in Manchester you would have to say they are the
favourites," he added.


"And we don't mind that. But we're going to try and knock them
off."


Wiggins has not been part of a team pursuit in competition since
the Athens Olympics, but he is confident: "It is certainly the
best team I've ever ridden in.


"We have been hitting the numbers in the team pursuit and I can't
see us being beat."


Australia, however, are already planning their assault on the
event for Beijing and will use all available options - including
some of the riders who won them Olympic gold in Athens - to make
sure they leave the Chinese capital with their crown intact.


"I believe (for Beijing) we'll have the riders in this team, plus
four or five professional road riders," added McKenzie.


"Brad McGee, Luke Roberts, Graeme Brown, Brett Lancaster and one
or two others have said they want to gain a spot. So there's
going to be a fair bit of competition."

