

Don Quixote, hero of Spanish author Cervantes and the best known
figure in Spanish literature, can now be enjoyed in a new fashion
after an enterprising teenage fan produced a comic book version.


Gabriel Bernadino Valades, just 16, has produced a brightly-
coloured version of the work, penned in two parts in 1605 and
1615, and widely regarded as the first modern novel.


Don Quixote tells the story of a knight chasing adventure in
17th-century Spain alongside his faithful but materialistic
sidekick Sancho Panza.


In the Valades version their highly expressive faces come to life
as never before and even Rocinante, the knight's faithful steed,
appears to take on a character all of his own.


Valades has spent 16 months working away on the comic book in an
airy studio set up with help from his parents in their house at
Don Benito, a small village in the western Spanish region of
Extremadura.


"I found it interesting to draw (Quixote) so that schoolkids can
have access to it," Valades said in an interview with AFP.


The regional Extremadura government has offered support and
distributed 2,000 copies of the comic book across the region.


Valades said the whole project came to fruition after he began
reading about the adventures of Don Quixote after Spain launched
a series of commemorations in 2005 to mark the fourth centenary
of the work's original publication.


"I read the book and went through it with my father and then
started drawing on a large sheet of paper. I started off with a
pencil for the outline and then took a felt tip pen to colour it
in," said Valades, who has tackled the first 52 chapters of the
mammoth original.


His penchant for bright colours stand out.


"I picked these colours as they grab your attention and give the
book more originality," he explained, his 135-page work awash
with plenty of red, yellow, violet and green. Each page has eight
sections and is signed by his own hand, either "Gabriel 2005" of
"Gabriel 2006" according to the date he finished each section of
his labour of love.


The bright colour scheme is in stark contrast to the sandy,
somewhat monochrome backdrop of the plains of central northern
Spain where the original was set.


The hardest part, Valades added, was "writing texts to fit the
speech bubbles."


Delighted with the interest stirred by his first work, the teen
has already started work on the second volume of Don Quixote
which takes the protagonists all the way to Barcelona on the east
coast where they see the sea for the first time.


"I hope to finish it off around June as now I'm going a bit
quicker," said the young artist.


He has created a few characters of his own but feels they do not
yet merit a place in the action.


One day Valades hopes to move on to another work, the adventures
of Captain Alatriste, hero of the best-selling story of a 17th
century soldier-turned- mercenary by novelist Arturo Perez
Reverte and recent subject of a film.

