

China will begin assembling the prototype of its first home-made
commercial jet, the company said Thursday, bringing the nation
one step closer to its ambition of 9becoming an aerospace power.


Built by the China Aviation Industry Corp, the country's biggest
military aircraft maker, the assembly in Shanghai will start on
Friday and is scheduled to be completed by December.


"The ARJ-21 will come off the production line by the end of 2007
and start the flight trials in March 2008," an official with
subsidiary Shanghai Aircraft Manufacturing Factory (SAMF) told
AFP.


Meanwhile, according to a report by the Shanghai Daily the
president of the SAMF Wang Wenbin said production capacity would
be about 50 jets a year.


The ARJ-21 jet, a small regional passenger plane with 70 to 90
seats, will make its maiden flight a year from now, and is
expected to enter the commercial market in the third quarter of
2009, the newspaper said.


Since launching the project in December 2003, the wholly state-
run aviation group has received 71 orders for the ARJ-21, all
from domestic airlines, the paper said.


China's government announced last week plans to build a large
passenger aircraft which could eventually take on the world's two
dominant commercial jet makers Boeing and Airbus.


China has repeatedly stated it wants to lessen its reliance on
Boeing of the United States and Europe's Airbus, by building its
own planes.


Nevertheless about 40 percent of the AJR-21's parts are made by
foreign manufacturers, such as General Electric, Honeywell and
Parker Hannifin, the newspaper said.


With the AJR-21 seen as the first step in China becoming an
aerospace power, a new company with foreign investment will be
formed, entrusted with research and development.


"The global trend in the aircraft manufacturing industry is to
invite foreign partners to invest and co-develop components and
products and share the profits and risks," said Fu Shula,
president of China National Aero-Technology Import and Export
Corp, an affiliate of China Aviation Industry.


"China is likely to adopt this model in the development of its
own big aircraft," Fu said.

