

Twenty-five years later, Jose Luis Guirao shivers when he
remembers how, at age 19, he played dead to survive the battle of
Mount Longdon, the bloodiest in Argentina's war with Britain over
the Falkland Islands.


"We had to play dead because they (the British) were passing by.
We had no combat experience and we were weak because we didn't
have much to eat," Guirao said, the fear still shining in his
eyes decades later.


Cries and the whistle of bullets through the air still echo for
the tall, thin man, one of 14,000 veterans most of whom were
drafted at 19.


At Mount Longdon, fought June 12, 1982, some 100 Argentines and
23 Britons died. The key battle ended with the triumph of British
paratroopers and cemented the war's outcome.


Guirao was taken prisoner and returned to Buenos Aires having
lost 10 kilos (22 pounds) and much of his hearing, the price of
hours spent firing a machine gun.


But it was the aftermath of the Falklands' war that hit the young
draftees the hardest. A few more than 300 died in combat on land,
and another 323 in the sinking of the ship General Belgrano.


Suicides by veterans took another 350 to 450 lives, according to
a veteran's group.


Those who survived post traumatic stress and overcame suicidal
fears have faced a multitude of other problems including
unemployment, alcoholism, injuries and a lack of care.


"The soldiers were treated badly, hidden," said director Tristan
Bauer, who has made a film focused on the suicide of one
survivor.


He chose the battle for Mount Longdon as the backdrop for his
movie "Iluminados por el Fuego" (Blessed by Fire), which dealt
with the ostracism the young constripts faced upon their return.


Not only did the Argentine troops lose the war, but they were
blamed for the starting a fight picked by the military regime to
mask its troubles back home.


In power since a 1976 coup, the regime was losing its legitimacy
over human rights abuses, corruption and a weak economy and
picked a fight with Britain hoping to rally the nation behind the
cause of reclaiming the Falklands.


However, the military rout by the British further discredited the
regime, and Argentina returned to democracy the following year.


The South American country still claims the Falklands, which they
call Las Malvinas, off Argentina's shores.


Today, Luis Quinteros is a tall robust man who has regained the
30 kilos (66 pounds) he lost in the Falklands. He, along with
four other soldiers, were in charge of a mortar in the battle of
Two Sisters against a battalion of Royal Marines.


"It was a total improvization," he said. "Each time we fired, the
base of the mortar sank a meter (yard) into the ground. We tried
to stop it with stones but we broke it. It was from 1940!" he
said.


Brought back home on the hospital ship Canberra, he found a
society that had turned its back on him and his fellow fighters,
pushing them toward alcoholism.


Along with all the horrors of the war and the indifference of
their compatriots, veterans were forced by the Argentine military
to sign a confidentiality agreement before leaving the service.


The move was an attempt to stop young draftees who were
mistreated from speaking out against Argentine officials.


Another veteran, Juan Coronel, recalled how he struggled to live
with "the weight of having survived" the sinking of the cruiser
General Belgrano, torpedoed by the British nuclear submarine
Conqueror.


"I don't know how I got off," he told AFP, recalling how he spent
36 hours adrift at sea with 20 others surrounded by what looked
like "mountains of water" in freezing temperatures.


"Sixteen of us were finally rescued. Five had frozen to death,"
Coronel said, 44, who now raises pigs and sheep in Buenos Aires
province where he lives with his six children.


"They plucked us out of a choppy sea in a small boat. I was
happy, but when I tried to get up, I fell. My legs were frozen."


But the cold welcome they received on their homecoming was the
lowest blow.


"Officers who survived were met at the base by their superiors
and their families. For us, there was no one. We got off the
plane and were taken to the base on a bus. It hit like cold
water. We expected to be hailed as heros."

