

Human Rights Watch on Thursday accused Sri Lanka of failing to
probe the recruitment of child soldiers by a Tamil militant group
linked to government forces.


"Despite promises to investigate abductions of children by the
pro-government Karuna group, Sri Lankan authorities have taken no
effective action and abductions continue," the New York-based
group said in a statement.


The rights watchdog also pointed the finger at the rebel
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), saying the guerrillas
had also continued to recruit child soldiers despite repeated
pledges to end the practice.


HRW said Thursday it had seen children under the age of 17, some
armed with assault rifles, guarding offices of the Karuna group
in the eastern district of Batticaloa while Sri Lankan soldiers
and police passed by.


"When government troops at a military base look across the street
at children standing guard at a Karuna office and do nothing,
it's hard to believe the government is taking any meaningful
steps to end this abuse," HRW's Asia director Brad Adams said.


"The Karuna group's use of child soldiers with state complicity
is more blatant today than ever before."


A top UN official has also accused government forces of rounding
up children to be recruited by the Karuna group, which is
fighting the rebels with the tacit support of the army.


The group is led by a renegade Tiger leader, V. Muralitharan, who
is better known as Colonel Karuna.


"The government says it needs evidence to start an investigation,
but it already has ample information," Adams said.


"In addition to UN documentation and testimonies in our report,
many families have made formal complaints to the police."


In January, HRW had accused the government of "hypocrisy", saying
in a 100-page report that Colombo was guilty of the same practice
for which it had denounced the Tamil Tigers.


In that report, HRW said the government was fully aware of the
abductions of children by the Karuna group but allowed them to
happen because it needed an ally against the LTTE.


"The Karuna group is doing the government's dirty work," Adams
said. "It's time for authorities in Colombo to stop this group
from using children in its forces."


"The LTTE is a notorious repeat offender of child recruitment.
It's a shame that government forces complicit with the Karuna
group are now involved in the same ugly practice."

