

Powerful warlords and smaller commanders in Afghanistan's
relatively calm north and west are a latent threat to the fragile
government because of their stockpiles of arms, officials and
analysts say.


President Hamid Karzai, facing a crippling insurgency in the
south and east, has used the offer of jobs to draw into his shaky
administration an array of potentially destabilising players.


They range from one-time members of the extremist Taliban and the
Islamist party of fugitive ex-premier Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to
leaders of the Northern Alliance that helped remove the Taliban
from government in 2001.


Many of the men in this troubled alliance were on-and-off-again
enemies or allies in the 30 years of war that wrecked
Afghanistan.


And if they claim to have put away their arms, the reality
appears to be something else, according to officials.


The UN's Disbandment of Illegal Armed Groups (DIAG) programme
launched in 2005 around Kabul and the north and west "does not
work as well as it should," said spokesman Ahmad Jan Nawzadi.


Regional commanders, some under the thumb of commanders of the
resistance to the 1979-1989 Soviet invasion who today have
positions in government or parliament, "are using the pretext of
the insurgency in the south to not disarm," he added.


The armed groups that are not part of the Taliban-led insurgency
-- estimated to number about 2,000 two years ago -- "do not stop
growing because they have been broken up," says Nawzadi, without
being able to give figures.


"It is a threat for the government, for everyone. The problem is
that people are not interested in seeing a strong army and police
force," he says, referring to certain anti-Soviet "warlords" whom
he did not name.


The north and the west have in the past few months seen several
deadly clashes between rival militias, including some that have
officially surrendered their arms, according to the police.


Under the DIAG about 63,000 combatants have officially been
demobilised and 34,000 weapons "confiscated" -- a drop in the
ocean of weapons floating around a country more used to war than
peace.


About 5,000 weapons have been collected in the northern city of
Mazar-i-Sharif, capital of Balkh province.


There was no financial compensation, leading some commanders to
opt to sell their weapons to insurgents in the south, says Mazar
DIAG official Hamid Quraishi.


"The price of weapons on the black market has doubled, maybe
tripled, which backs reports that weapons are being smuggled from
the north to the south," he says.


Balkh governor and ex-Tajik commander in the Northern Alliance
Atta Mohammed claims to have given up "all his arms and his
tanks" despite "not very friendly relations" with the other
northern strongman, Abdul Rashid Dostum.


"I do not need guns to make myself heard," says the governor, who
has the face of a boxer, in his Mazar-i-Sharif "palace".


But there are still reports from time to time of his men being
involved in clashes, including with Dostum's men.


In his own opulent villa in Kabul, "professor" Burhanuddin
Rabbani, former president and head of the Jamiat-e-Islami party
in which several commanders fought, says the "warlords" are not
going away.


The leaders of the anti-Soviet jihad (holy war) -- when the
mujahedin gained power, money and fame as heroes of the
resistance -- "will be active, influential and powerful for a
long, long time yet," he says.


"All attempts to weaken the mujahedin will have a negative
result. It will not happen," says Rabbani, now a parliamentarian.


His point is perhaps illustrated by the warlord-dominated
parliament's recent approval of a controversial amnesty law for
war crimes committed by groups and parties.


Several leaders of the jihad -- most of them from the Northern
Alliance that toppled the Taliban in 2001 with US help -- have
also recently formed a new coalition, the United National Front,
with Rabbani at the helm.


"Fighting is not the solution," Rabbani says. "The mujahedin have
given up most of their arms. But we are present in all the
regions and if someone wants to pick a fight, there is no
shortage of ways to find weapons."

