

Twenty-five years ago, on April 2, 1982 Argentina invaded the
Falklands Islands, sparking a brief, bloody 10-week war with
Britain.


Agence France-Presse has prepared a special series of features
looking at the impact of the war, and life in the Falklands
today.


We will shortly move the following stories:


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-war


STANLEY, Falkland Islands


It was the most unlikely of battlegrounds for a major conflict, a
windswept archipelago at the ends of the Earth fought over by two
powers half a world apart.


700 words by Dario Klein. Graphic + Picture


Britain-Argentina-Falklands-war-anniversary


LONDON


Britain marks in the coming weeks the 25th anniversary of its
victory in the Falklands war, a conflict which triggered an
outpouring of patriotism and whose casualties are still mourned.


700 words by Lachlan Carmichael


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-war-memories


STANLEY, Falklands Islands


Bunkers, mine fields and a cemetery of fallen Argentine soldiers
still scar the Falklands islands war 25 years after Argentina
invaded.


600 words by Dario Klein. Picture


We will also move: Britain-Falklands-Argentina-war,CHRONO


Britain-Falklands-Argentina,FACTS


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-Belgrano


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-war-politics,PROFILE


LONDON


The Falklands War was widely seen as a watershed for then British
premier Margaret Thatcher, paving the way for her later political
successes and restoring Britain's faded international image.


700 words by Cyril Belaud. Picture


Britain-Argentina-Falklands-war-veterans


BUENOS AIRES


Twenty-five years later, Jose Luis Guirao shivers when he
remembers how, at age 19, he played dead to survive the battle of
Mount Longdon, the bloodiest in Argentina's war with Britain over
the Falkland Islands.


700 words by Laura Termine.


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-military,INTERVIEW


LONDON


Jeremy Moore, the general who commanded British land forces
during the Falklands war 25 years ago, worried throughout the
campaign that victory could slip from his grasp.


800 words by Lachlan Carmichael. Picture


Britain-Falklands-Argentina-war-battles


LONDON


British soldiers say they will never forget the ghastly sights,
sounds and smells of the battles to recapture the rocky windswept
Falkland Islands in the south Atlantic 25 years ago.


750 words by Lachlan Carmichael

