

The Falklands War was widely seen as a watershed for then British
premier Margaret Thatcher, paving the way for her later political
successes and restoring Britain's faded international image.


Thatcher cemented her reputation as the "Iron Lady," a moniker
given to her after an anti-Soviet speech in 1976, when she sent
an armada to take back the south Atlantic islands invaded by
Argentine forces on April 2, 1982.


Caught by surprise like her cabinet, the Conservative leader
impressed all sides with her determination throughout the 74-day
war in which 255 British and 649 Argentine forces died.


Sir Bernard Ingham, her spokesman while she served as prime
minister from 1979 to 1990, told AFP Thatcher was the driving
force behind the decision to go to war, though she did consult
her cabinet.


"They've got to get off. They will not be allowed to remain. Full
stop," Ingham said, citing her first reaction to the news of the
invasion.


The Falklands War pointed to nerves of steel that served her well
on the home front for years, Ingham said. "Nobody really ever
understood her sheer determination. The people underestimated it
and they learnt their lesson."


Christopher Hill, a professor at Cambridge University, said the
decision carried a lot of political risk.


"I think most British politicians would have thought that it is
necessary, but not all of them might have had the nerves to send
a military task force 10,000 miles into the Atlantic," Hill told
AFP.


"She had as we say more 'balls' than the men," he said.


Retired General Jeremy Moore, who was the commander of land
forces during the war, could not imagine a better civilian
leader.


"She was marvellous from my point of view as a soldier. I very
much doubted whether any other prime minister since Churchill
would have had the nerve to carry out the operation," Moore told
AFP.


Thatcher, who alienated many in Britain with her tough free-
market economic prescriptions, managed to unite behind her a
country where her popularity had been falling just weeks before.


"She presented herself as a sort of tough patriot, who was
presiding over the loss of a British territory to a
dictatorship," said Lawrence Freedman, a professor at King's
College London.


"I don't think she ever doubted she was doing the right thing,"
he said.


However, the war's conduct did not insulate her from criticism,
in particular over the order to sink the cruiser, the General
Belgrano, with the loss of more than 300 Argentine lives.


And the war's outcome could have been different if she had not
obtained the support of then US president Ronald Reagan, who was
at first reticent about opposing an anti-Communist Argentine
dictatorship.


With her standing in the opinion polls extremely low before the
war, she has also had to defend herself against charges that she
went to war for political reasons. In the aftermath of the
British victory, the Conservatives easily won re-election the
following year.


"Undoubtedly her success in the Falklands helped her image, both
at home and abroad, but it's not a simple matter that she went to
war in order to win an election," Hill said.


Her biographer Charles Moore said the moment was a watershed.


"It was her first important, unequivocal success. It created self
and public confidence," Moore said.


Britain had been gripped by a long period of self-doubt over its
failure in the Suez crisis in 1956, the end of its empire and the
economic recession of the 1970s.


A day after Argentina surrendered on June 14, 1982, Thatcher
trumpeted: "We knew what we had to do and we went about it and
did it. Great Britain is great again."


"The significance of the Falklands War was enormous, both for
Britain's self- confidence and for our standing in the world,"
Thatcher wrote in her memoires.


Though seriously ill at 81 years old, Thatcher on Friday visited
an airfield in Britain to inspect one of the Vulcan bombers she
sent into battle in the Falklands -- a rare appearance during
events to mark the war's 25 anniversary.

