

Prosecutors in the trial of US engineer Chi Mak said Wednesday
that secret US submarine technology information he had tried to
smuggle to China was to help it take control of Taiwan.


Assistant US attorney Greg Staples said the sensitive data on a
computer disk Mak tried to provide China through his brother
included information on under- development Quiet Electric Drive
technology to make submarines silent.


China's navy "is supportive of the re-taking of Taiwan (and) the
chief impediment to retaking Taiwan is the 7th fleet of the US
Navy," Staples said as the trial got underway.


The Chinese navy particularly needs to be able to find US
submarines, he said.


"And that is why the Quiet Electric Drive is important."


But Mak's lawyer said he was only sharing information with other
scientists and engineers.


"It's a case about technology exchange," Marilyn Bednarski told
the jury.


"Scientists and engineers get information from each other and
work in a sharing way," she said.


"If someone shares something that's not export-controlled or if
someone does and doesn't know it, it's not a violation of the
law."


The 66 year old engineer, born in Guangdong, China, was arrested
in 2005 with his wife at his California home.


He had given an encrypted disk with the submarine and other data
to his brother Tai Mak, who was arrested with his wife at the
same time as they tried to board a flight in Los Angeles to China
carrying the disk.


Tai Mak's son Billy was then indicted last year related to his
help in encrypting the disk.


Chi Mak is charged with illegally acting as an agent of China in
the United States in exporting weapons-related technology without
an appropriate export license. He is also charged with making
false statements.


But Mak, who has denied the charges, has not been charged with
espionage, because the information on the disk was not officially
classified.


In the trial Wednesday, prosecutor Staples said Mak, who worked
at engineering firm and defense contractor Power Paragon in
Anaheim, California, rejected the defense claim that because the
data was not classified, Mak was free to exchange it with
Chinese.


Staples said that Mak had been given intensive instruction in how
to handle both classified and sensitive information, and that he
should have applied first to the State Department for an export
license.


"Barely nothing on these disks could be sent to China, he said."


He said Mak admitted he had been passing technology to China for
over 23 years, explaining that he "wanted to help China."


The prosecutor painted a picture of China's strategy to collect
vast amounts of US information bit by bit, like "a thousand
grains of sand."


To do so China depends "on the loyalty and patriotism of Chinese
who live here or come here to study or teach," he said.


But Bednarski said the government was exaggerating the Chinese
threat.


"The case is about an alarmist over-reaction. The case is about
misconceptions and prejudice," she said.


Bednarski said Mak worked only on the earliest phase of the quiet
submarine system, that it has never been tested, and that he
planned to   retire before the system design was completed.


"He was not an agent for the Chinese government."

