

Guinean leaders agreed Wednesday on the formation of a new
government in a bid to end months of unrest and political crisis
in the troubled west African nation, public television reported.


"The president (Lansana Conte) has signed a decree on the
proposition of Prime Minister Lansana Kouyate nominating new
members of the Guinean government," announced a journalist for
Radio-television Guinea (RTG).


The report went on to list the new government which contained
none of the previous ministers and was composed of 19 ministerial
portfolios but no state ministers or secretaries.


Kouyate was inaugurated on March 1 to replace Eugene Camara as
Conte sought to end weeks of bloody showdown and in line with a
deal secured by the powerful trade unions and Conakry
authorities.


Camara held office for less than three weeks, and had to be
removed after his February 9 appointment sparked further protests
and saw Conte put Guinea under martial law for 12 days.


Crisis talks were successfully brokered by the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) but not before at least 113 had
died in the repression of the protests.


Conte imposed a state of siege and martial law on February 12
that a normally compliant parliament unanimously voted down 11
days later.


Kouyate will have more powers than his predecessors to run the
government of a nation ravaged by economic and political crisis.
Conte took power in 1984 and long ruled with an iron fist, but
suffers now from diabetes and memory lapses.


At 56-years-old, former UN diplomat Kouyate has been entrusted
with enlarged powers as the official head of the government, a
role previously held by the presidents after independence from
France in 1958.


His task will be to tackle serious economic and social problems
that fed anger among Guinea's 9.4 million people at official
corruption and erupted into a political showdown.


The global watchdog Transparency International last November
rated Guinea the most corrupt country in Africa.


Despite vast mineral resources, including bauxite, used to
produce aluminium, Guinea is rated among the world's 20 most
poverty-stricken countries.

