

It was the most unlikely of battlegrounds for a major conflict, a
windswept archipelago at the ends of the Earth fought over by two
powers half a world apart.


But 25 years after they tussled for the Falkland Islands, Britain
and Argentina are still at odds and dealing with the aftershocks
of the war that reshaped their political landscapes.


Buenos Aires still lays claim to the islands it lost in the
brief, bloody test of wills in 1982 between Argentinian dictator
General Leopoldo Galtieri and Britain's Iron Lady, Margaret
Thatcher.


And British troops continue to patrol the Falklands, a lonely,
forgotten clump of dots in the South Atlantic before Argentinia's
invasion sparked Britain's biggest air and naval battle since
World War II.


Today, the economy of the archipelago is booming, powered by
fishing, tourism and the possibility of oil. Yet tensions between
the two erstwhile antagonists still simmer.


Only days before Monday's 25th anniversary of the war, Argentina
scrapped a deal with Britain to share oil found in the Falklands
and accused London of dragging its feet in talks on the islands'
sovereignty.


A quarter-century ago, few Brits had even heard of the Falklands
Islands. But on April 2, 1982 the nation woke up to find that the
remote hilly islands, populated mostly by sheep and penguins, had
been invaded by Argentine soldiers.


Three days later, a British squadron was scrambled. With no
ceremony and little warning, Britain was at war over a bunch of
islands some 12,000 kilometres (7,400 miles) on the other side of
the world.


Seventy-one days after that, seven ships, including Argentina's
General Belgrano had been sunk, 649 Argentine and 255 British
troops had been killed, and Britain emerged victorious.


The future of the islands, which had been ignored for years by
London, had been changed forever. Also altered were the fates of
the Argentine dictatorship and Thatcher's flagging Conservative
government.


Analysts said the invasion was a desperate attempt by Argentina's
then-military regime to retain its grip on power, which it seized
in 1976. A year later the junta had fallen as the country
returned to democracy.


And in Britain, Thatcher's party rode a wave of patriotism to
victory in the 1983 general elections, overturning a general
malaise at her government and holding on to power for another
seven years.


While Thatcher adroitly tapped into a vein of new-found British
nationalism to secure the second of her three terms in office,
Galtieri's similar attempt to stay in power backfired.


He had sought to whip up patriotic feelings among a population
taught in school that the Falklands, known in Argentina as the
Malvinas and lying 500 kilometres (300 miles) from their eastern
shores, were theirs by right.


"Galtieri launched the occupation of the Malvinas to try to win
popular support by exploiting anti-imperialist feelings," said
historian Lisandro Rubiales.


The invasion came amid the first popular protests in Argentina in
years as the brutal dictatorship, during which 30,000 people
vanished, faced a severe socio- economic crisis with high
unemployment and falling salaries.


Invading the islands with only 1,800 residents looked like an
easy way to divert attention away from home, especially since the
anti-Communist dictatorship thought it could count on the support
of the United States following Ronald Reagan's arrival in the
White House.


But Reagan plumped to back his ideological soul-mate and
strategic Cold War ally Thatcher, and analysts say once she had
unleashed two naval Task Forces and a total of 28,000 personnel
she had no choice but to win back the islands.


Christopher Hill, a professor at Cambridge University, said the
decision carried a lot of political risk.


"I think most British politicians would have thought that it was
necessary, but not all of them might have had the nerves to send
a military task force 10,000 miles into the Atlantic," Hill told
AFP.


"She had, as we say, more 'balls' than the men," he said.


Confronted by a professional, militarily superior army, Argentine
forces, largely composed of young conscripts, agreed a surrender
on June 14, 1982.


For the Falklanders, the war catapulted them out of their
isolation and into a new era of prosperity. Today per capita
income has soared to some 25,000 dollars a year.


The population has nearly doubled to around 3,000 and Britain
maintains another 1,200 troops on the islands, where the Union
Jack proudly flies from many homes.

