

It is twilight and Dhaka's glitzy, neon-lit shopping centres
stand out like beacons in the gloom. This is the busiest time of
day but soon every shop will fall dark as part of a new
government policy to divert power to the most needy.


Within 20 minutes the lights will be out, the shutters down, and
shopkeepers like Amir Hossen will be on their way home reflecting
ruefully on their recent 50 percent drop in takings.


It's not that retailers don't sympathise with the rural farmers
benefiting from the interim government's decision to help tackle
the nation's power crisis by banning shops from opening after
7:00 pm.


In fact, Hossen -- though concerned about his own losses --
thinks it right that electricity should be diverted from cities
to help struggling farmers irrigate their land.


"We support this policy for the sake of the farmers although we
would like to have the closing time extended to 8:00 pm," he
said.


Since the ban was first imposed in late February, Hossen's
takings have dropped by half.


But he says he believes the losses are temporary, adding that
business has started to pick up during the normally slack
afternoons.


North of the capital in Bangladesh's rural heartland is where the
government wants the benefit of the new policy to be felt.


Here, farmers have become used to receiving power for only a few
hours a day, if at all.


Last year, however, their frustration boiled over in a series of
violent protests in the northern village of Kansat in which at
least 18 people died.


Thousands of farmers brandishing sticks and machetes vented years
of pent-up fury by marching through the streets and laying siege
to the local police station.


Officers, fearing for their lives, fired tear gas, rubber bullets
and live ammunition and at least five officers were seriously
injured including one who had his leg severed with a machete.


The following month power minister Iqbal Hasan Mahmud told
reporters it would take at least three years to ease the yawning
shortfall in supply and demand fuelled by five per cent annual
growth since the early 1990s.


He was promptly removed from his job. Four months later his
replacement was fired too.


-- Long-term solutions needed to deal with massive power
shortfall --


Experts say far-reaching plans are needed to tackle the nation's
power crisis.


"The last government sat over this problem for five years and did
nothing. Cutting power to shops is a short term solution," said
Moinul Islam, professor of economics at the southeastern
Chittagong University.


"This interim government needs to also come up with medium and
long-term solutions," he said.


The World Bank has put Bangladesh's power shortfall at 700 to 800
megawatts a day rising to 2,000 megawatts when ageing plants are
shut for maintenance.


It says at least 10 billion dollars in investment is needed over
the next decade to tackle the problem.


Islam blamed corruption for the failure of power generation
projects under the last government led by the Bangladesh
Nationalist Party (BNP).


"The last government was minting money out of the projects to
generate electricity and none of them came to fruition because
they could not agree with their partners on who would earn what,"
he said.


In 2005, Bangladesh was named the most corrupt nation in the
world for the fifth year running by international graft watchdog
Transparency International. Last year, it moved up to joint third
from the bottom.


"These projects must be reviewed and the actual costs
established, then pushed forward. If this is done the problem is
very much solvable," Islam added.


In addition to its power diversion policy, the new government has
also launched a massive graft crackdown which has seen at least
45 prominent figures detained from both of the country's
political parties.


As summer approaches Bangladeshis are hoping their new leaders
can finally bring an end to their suffering.


In the capital Dhaka where power cuts can last up to six hours in
soaring summer temperatures, clerk Mohammed Nizamuddin, 38, said
he believed there was now a determination to stamp out
"corruption and mismanagement" in the ailing sector.


"Last year there were so many power cuts it was insufferable," he
said.


And he welcomed the fairer distribution of scarce resources.


"Huge amounts of electricity are consumed by air conditioners,
lifts and escalators in the markets. Now I hope there will be
proper distribution in every sector and that the farmers can
irrigate their crops," he said.

