

West Indies captain Brian Lara said tiredness would not be an
excuse come Thursday's Super Eight clash against New Zealand.


The match against the Black Caps will be the third straight day
of cricket for the World Cup hosts after their Super Eight opener
with Australia, which they lost by 103 runs, spanned Tuesday and
Wednesday because of rain.


One consolation for Lara is that having seen the world champions
score 322 for six on Tuesday before rain stopped play, his
bowlers weren't required to turn their arms over on Wednesday
when the West Indies were bowled out for 219.


"It's a disadvantage," Lara said after top-scoring for the West
Indies with 77.


"The only saving grace is the fact the bowlers didn't have to do
anything today (Wednesday). They put their legs up and maybe ran
around a bit with the bat in their hands. That's good for us.


"It's a situation we knew was a possibility and I don't think
it's going to be an excuse."


Lara added his side faced another tough challenge in New Zealand
who, like the West Indies, won all their group games having
previously thrashed Australia 3-0 in the Chappell-Hadlee one-day
series.


"New Zealand is a very good one-day outfit. We are not going to
be taking them any lighter than we did Australia. They (New
Zealand) play the game very well and in the field, with the
ball."


However, he said New Zealand would miss Lou Vincent.


The opening batsman, one of the Kiwis' best fielders, saw his
World Cup end on Sunday when he broke his wrist facing New
Zealand strike bowler Shane Bond in the nets.


"Lou Vincent will be a major factor. He was outstanding in the
field in the first round," said Lara.


"Coming off the back of not just the first round in the World Cup
but also their performances against Australia in New Zealand,
they are very high in confidence and we know it's going to be a
tough job. But we are confident we can get our act together and
give a very good performance."


Lara said that against Australia, for whom opener Matthew Hayden
scored a national World Cup record 158, West Indies had conceded
too many runs and then left themselves an impossible task with a
top-order collapse to 20 for three.


"The most important thing about chasing 300-plus is that one of
the top four has to bat through. To lose three wickets in under
10 overs was the major factor in the game. That killed our
opportunity.


"West Indies are not going to meet Australia again unless we get
to the semi- final so we've got to concentrate on the five games
we've got remaining."


Lara, in at 20 for three, insisted he had no plans a yet to move
himself back up the order.


"I still have a lot of confidence in the guys up there.
Shivnarine Chanderpaul got a hundred in the last game (against
Ireland), Chris Gayle is an outstanding batsman and we are not
going to replace those two as openers. "Ramnaresh Sarwan has been
our top player in the one-day game in the last couple of years
and Marlon Samuels has been coming to the fore in a few games. So
one disappointment is not going to change things.


"But of course we are going to discuss it so the guys with form
get an early opportunity so the other guys can build innings
around them."

