

Japan's Kosuke Kitajima will be looking to cash in on world
champion Brendan Hansen's withdrawal from the 200-metre
breaststroke heats at the world swimming championships Thursday.


Hansen, the world record holder in the event, pulled out with an
illness leaving the way for Kitajima to reclaim the world title
he lost to the American at the 2005 Montreal world titles.


US Swimming said Hansen fell ill on Wednesday evening after
returning from the pool where he won silver in the 50m
breaststroke final but he is expected to return for Sunday's
4x100m medley relay.


Kitajima, who lost the 100m breaststroke final narrowly to Hansen
on Monday, went the fastest time of two minutes 11.07 seconds
into the semi-finals Thursday ahead of Italians Loris Facci
(2:12.07) and Paolo Bossini (2:12.20).


"I only heard about it (Hansen) when I arrived at the stadium
this morning. It is unfortunate, the race is not going to be as
exciting as I'd like it to be," said Kitajima.


"But I just want concentrate on myself and would prefer not to
talk about him now.


"I didn't have any pressure. I think my swim was good but I still
feel a bit tired from last night." Kitajima swum the 50m
breaststroke on Wednesday, finishing fifth.


Hansen's teammate Aaron Peirsol said his compatriot would have
swum if he had been able.


"He's (Hansen) one of those guys if he could swim, he would do
anything to do so, so he must be feeling pretty sick," he said.


American Natalie Coughlin took the fastest time to the semi-
finals of the women's 100m freestyle with 54.04secs in the heats.


Coughlin, the winner of the 100m backstroke title in world record
time on Tuesday, grabbed the top seeding in the semis ahead of
Canada's Erica Morningstar (54.30), Australian Libby Lenton
(54.32) and world record holder Britta Steffen of Germany
(54.60).


"Honestly, I thought it was going to be way faster, and I thought
the top spot was going to be a much faster time," Coughlin said.


Steffan, who broke the world record at last August's European
championships, said it could all come down to the longest
fingernails in the final.


"Everybody is swimming on the same level, but sometimes it just
comes down to who has the longest fingernails," she said.


Athens Olympic champion Jodie Henry was sixth fastest in 54.76.


World record holder Peirsol cruised into the semi-finals as the
fastest qualifier in the 200m backstroke.


Peirsol, who claimed the 100m backstroke in world record time on
Tuesday, clocked 1:57.79 ahead of teammate Ryan Lochte 1:57.95.


"I think come the finals those guys will swim well," Peirsol
said. "I'll be going after my own thing, if they want to follow
that's fine."


South African Suzaan van Biljon upstaged world champion and world
record holder Leisel Jones to be the fastest in the 200m
breaststroke heats.


Van Biljon just held on to claim the top seeding into the semi-
finals in 2:27.03 ahead Sweden's Sandra Jacobson (2:27.08) and
Jones (2:27.10).


"I am sure she (Jones) will win easy in the final. I just wanted
to keep my stroke long, so I just concentrated on my own stroke,"
van Biljon said.


Australia led the way into the women's 4x200m freestyle relay
final but the United States had a scare, qualifying eighth to
just make the grade.

