

Since the 1979 revolution which overthrew the Shah of Iran and
ushered in the Islamic republic, there have been three major
incidents in which US or British citizens have been held against
their will in the country.


By far the most spectacular occurred in November 1979 when
militant students in Tehran stormed the US embassy and took all
63 diplomats and other staff members there hostage.


They were responding for appeals from the Iranian spiritual
leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini for the former Shah, who had
been granted entry to the United States for medical treatment, to
be sent home.


That demand was never granted, and former ruler was to die in
exile in July 1980, before the end of the crisis.


Although a small number of Americans, mostly women, were released
quite rapidly from the Tehran embassy, the crisis dragged on
through all of 1980.


The last 52 hostages were only released in January 1981, on the
day the new US president, Ronald Reagan, was sworn in. They had
been held for 444 days in all.


As a result of the crisis the United States broke off diplomatic
relations with Iran on April 8, 1980; they have never been
resumed.


The hostage crisis also saw an ill-fated attempt by president
Jimmy Carter, Reagan's predecessor, to mount a military raid to
free the detained Americans in the early hours of April 25, 1980.
Eight US servicemen died when the operation went wrong in the
Iranian desert.


More recently, during the war sparked by the US-led invasion of
Iraq in 2003, Iran has twice seized British naval personnel who
were patrolling the contested waters between the two countries.


In June 2004 Iranian forces patrolling the Shatt al-Arab waterway
which forms the southern part of the Iran-Iraq border, seized
eight British servicemen who were training Iraqis to patrol their
country's coastal waters.


Then as now, Iran insisted that the Britons had entered its
territorial waters, while Britain denied it.


The eight were released three days later, unharmed but having
been shown on Iranian TV wearing blindfolds.


The latest crisis began on Friday, when Iran seized 15 British
navy personnel in the Gulf, just outside the entrance of the
Shatt al-Arab.

