

The dollar traded mostly higher Wednesday as Federal Reserve
chairman Ben Bernanke dampened hopes of a quick rate cut by
saying US economic growth is continuing and inflation remains a
key concern.


The euro fell to 1.3312 dollars at 2100 GMT from 1.3344 dollars
late Tuesday in New York.


The dollar dropped to 116.85 yen, from 117.91 yen late on
Tuesday.


The yen was stronger "on a combination of Japanese financial year
end flows, expectations that the Tankan report will reflect a
broadening trend of the domestic economy and lower ... concerns
about global growth, particularly in the US," said Jon Gencher at
BMO Capital Markets.


Otherwise, the dollar shook off a weaker-than-expected report on
orders for US durable manufactured goods as traders focused on
Bernanke's comments to Congress.


Bernanke told lawmakers on the Joint Economic Committee that he
and colleagues on the Fed's interest-rate-setting panel had not
changed their official "bias" toward inflation. But he added that
the group wanted to ensure flexibility for any future rate
decisions.


Bernanke "appeared to dash hopes that the Fed will lower interest
rates any time soon," said Al Goldman at AG Edwards.


But some analysts said the dollar's rally was unlikely to last
very long.


"The market deems Fed chairman Bernanke's inflation vigilance to
be gratuitous relative to the emerging deterioration in subprime
defaults," said CMC Markets analyst Ashraf Laidi.


"At first blush it would seem that the bias is intact as he says
that the Fed has not shifted away from an inflation bias," said
Divyang Shah, chief strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.


"But the Fed is neutral, and while at the current juncture there
are concerns about inflation, if we get a sharper weakness in the
housing market or the employment outlook deteriorates then the
Fed would be more than willing to provide an easing."


Bernanke also eased fears when he said that the impact of
difficulties in the US mortgage market had not spread into the
wider economy.


In his most extensive discussion of the problem to date, the Fed
chairman said problems in the sub-prime market seemed likely to
be contained.


Sub-prime borrowers are generally less wealthy and thus more
vulnerable to foreclosures when variable mortgage rates rise.


"On the face of his performance the dollar improved a little
because he is suggesting the sub-prime market's problems are not
spilling over and he sounded fairly upbeat when asked about the
chances of a recession," said Gavin Friend, currency strategist
at Commerzbank Corporates and Markets.


"However consumer data out this afternoon is terrible and
concerns about the housing and sub-prime market are likely to be
usurped by concerns about capital spending, he added.


Earlier in the day, US data showed new orders for durable goods
rose 2.5 percent in February, after declining by a revised 9.3
percent in January -- the sharpest one-month fall since June
2000.


January's decline had initially been reported as an 8.7 percent
fall, while February's rise was slower than the 3.1 percent
increase economists had expected.


The news followed releases earlier this week of weaker-than-
expected US new home sales and consumer confidence data.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2163 Swiss francs
after 1.2137 Tuesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9616 dollars from 1.9651.

