

Fifteen British naval personnel held by Iran for the past week
are bargaining chips but it is difficult to say in which game of
geo-political poker they are the stakes.


Iran watchers in European capitals say the 15 may be played in
the dispute over Iran's nuclear programme, or the US detention of
five Iranian officials in Iraq two months ago. They could be used
in both.


Experts were not convinced by British Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett's statement Wednesday that she had been assured by Iran
the detentions were not linked to any other issue.


The navy personnel were seized in the Gulf last Friday, one day
before the UN Security Council ordered new sanctions over Iran's
refusal to halt uranium enrichment. Washington accuses Iran of
covertly seeking a nuclear bomb.


The detentions were "a major provocation" which "aim to show the
determination of the Islamic Republic not to give in to
international pressure," said Frederic Tellier at the Institute
for International and Strategic Studies in Paris.


"We are reaching a new fever pitch and the Islamic regime wants
to show its ability to use any tactic, including the most
radical, in the nuclear affair," added Tellier, who has written
several books about Iran.


But Francois Gere of the French Institute for Strategic Analysis
in Paris believes the Britons are "bargaining chips" against five
Iranians detained by the US military on January 11 in a raid on
an Iranian "liaison bureau" in the northern Iraqi city of Arbil.


The US military said the five Iranians were suspected of being
"closely linked to activities targeting Iraq and coalition
forces."


"I don't believe that the Iranians are so naive that they can
influence the vote of the British on the UN Security Council," he
said.


Other experts say the detentions highlight the unpredictable
nature of the Iranian government and how desperate it is to show
its weight.


Maximilian Terhalle, a Middle East expert based in Berlin, said:
"Recent events have shown many times that Iran likes to escalate
a situation to show that it has an impact on what is happening in
the region. But in the West we tend to assume that the government
acts as one monolithic entity."


Terhalle emphasised that no outsider could tell whether the
detention order came from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad or an
enterprising underling.


"I don't know whether this was the Republican Guard or a regional
commander who decided that this would be the right thing to tell
the British that they cannot go much further.


"The government is now playing for time to make the British feel
uncomfortable," he said. "The crisis will be resolved eventually
but for the moment it is time to play poker."


Bruno Tertrais of the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris
said the detentions could be the act of a hardline section of the
Iranian leadership as part of the nuclear dispute.


"I wonder if all of the main decision-makers in Tehran were aware
of the operation," he said.


But Mark Thomas, of the Royal United Services Institute for
Defence and Security Studies (RUSI) in London also called the 15
a "bartering chip" but said Iran was probably angry over the
nuclear dispute and the detained officials.


"In my feeling, it's both," he said highlighting Iranian protests
over uranium enrichment and the five officials.


Iran is sending a message to the United States, he said.


The United States has in recent months recently been successful
in showing Iran that despite its troubles in Iraq "that it is
capable of projecting power against Iran."


"Now Iran is almost sending a counter message to that by saying:
'Look, if you want to put on the pressure, you must be aware that
this is what we can do'. It's a warning sign, saying that 'Iran
can step up pressure as well and if you want to progress along
this route, you need to consider the consequences'."

