

Britain's Andy Murray advanced to the semi-finals of the 6.9
million-dollar WTA and ATP Masters Series hardcourt tournament
Wednesday when US third seed Andy Roddick retired with an injury.


Murray led 5-3 after 29 minutes here when Roddick pulled out. He
had taken treatment before the final game in an ultimately vain
attempt to continue after sustaining an injury to his bottom.


"I think the medical term is 'the bottom of my ass hurts,'"
Roddick said.


"He hit a volley behind me and I kind of lunged at it and jarred
something. More and more it started becoming like a sharp pain
and then I started feeling it even when I was just kind of
cruising around the court, not even in points.


"It wasn't getting better. It was getting worse, which isn't a
good sign."


As a result, the 19-year-old Scotsman, who ranks 12th in the
world, advanced to a semi-final matchup against the winner of a
later quarter-final between Spanish second seed Rafael Nadal and
Serbian teenager Novak Djokovic.


"I was hitting the ball much better," Murray said. "I was playing
more aggressive, came to the net a few times. There were some
good volleys, served better - felt like I was moving pretty
well."


It will be the fifth semi-final of the year for Murray, who won
at San Jose and lost in the Doha final as well as the semi-finals
at Indian Wells and Memphis, where Roddick was his conqueror.


Swiss world number one and top seed Roger Federer was ousted
Tuesday by Argentina's Guillermo Canas.


"It probably does give you a feeling that you will have a chance
at winning against him," Murray said. "He has been on such a
great run that there was going to come a time when he didn't play
his best two tournaments in a row.


"I'm sure he'll be fired up for the clay court season now and go
work hard on his game and be back better than ever."


The injury is another setback for 24-year-old Roddick, who has a
21-4 record in 2007 and has reached four semi-finals this year -
including the Australian Open - but has yet to claim a title.


"I never even had a strain in any part of my leg before really,
not for six years or so. This is a new one for me," Roddick said.
"It's disappointing but right now I just want to focus on getting
better."


Roddick is hopeful of playing in next week's Davis Cup tie
against Spain.


"That's obviously playing a part in this process. I'm just kind
of concerned about that."


On the women's side, Israeli teen Shahar Peer advanced to the
semi-finals with a 6-0, 6-3 victory over Italy's Tathiana Garbin.


Peer, ranked 16th, will play for a spot in the championship match
against the winner of a later quarter-final between Australian
Open champion Serena Williams and Czech eighth seed Nicole
Vaidisova.


"I'm really happy. It's the first time getting to the semi-final
in a big tournament and I was waiting for it long time," Peer
said.


The other semi-final will match world number one Justine Henin of
Belgium and Russia's Anna Chakvetadze.


Peer, 19, took just 80 minutes to dispatch Garbin, winning the
first nine games of the match on the way to her third semi-final
of the year.


"I was playing smart. I was playing very solid, did what I had to
do. In the end I was getting a little bit tight. But it happens
to everybody," she added.

