

Rescue efforts continued Sunday for a missing woman, the only
person still unaccounted for after flash floods killed 37
tourists who were cooling off in two waterfalls in southern
Thailand.


Authorities resumed the hunt at dawn after torrents of water
poured over the waterfalls Saturday afternoon in Trang, a seaside
province 700 kilometres (440 miles) south of Bangkok.


However, only bodies and no survivors were pulled from the water
Sunday, with local hospital officials reporting that 17 of the
dead were children.


Trang governor Anan Manasvanich said all 37 of the victims had
been identified and vowed to continue the search until the last
person was accounted for.


"The two rescue teams of 150 are still working to find the last
missing person. We will continue until we find the last missing
one," he told AFP.


Anxious relatives had earlier gathered by the waterfalls as
police divers and rescue workers in life jackets scoured the
river for survivors and victims of the flash flooding, which
police said was caused by heavy rain.


"We are still searching in the hope of finding survivors -- we do
have hope left," local police chief Colonel Sonthichai
Awatanakulthep said earlier.


More than 100 people were swimming in the waters when the
torrents struck Sairung and Prai Sawan waterfalls, which are
about five kilometres apart and whose names translate as
"rainbow" and "heavenly jungle".


They are popular tourist spots surrounded by picturesque forest,
and were particularly crowded because of the five-day Songkran
holiday weekend celebrating Buddhist New Year, when Thais
traditionally head home or into the countryside for some of the
hottest days of the year.


Sinchai Rongdej, hospital director at Yantakhao district, where
the waterfalls are located, said most of the victims were Thai.
One of the victims was identified as an 18-year-old Laos
national.


The dead included 17 women, three men, 11 boys and six girls, and
Sinchai said they were killed when the powerful water knocked
them over.


"More than 90 percent of the dead were hit by rocks after they
fell in the force of the flash flood," he added. "Almost all of
them had wounds on their heads and their faces."


About 29 people were injured in the floods, the health ministry
said, with all since being discharged from hospital.


Some distraught relatives gathered at Yantakhao Hospital where
authorities posted lists of the dead, while others preferred to
wait in hope at the scene of the tragedy.


Anan said that the province would pay relatives of the dead
between 15,000 and 40,000 baht (460 and 1,230 dollars) in
compensation, depending on family responsibilities and number of
dependants.

