

Brazil's Felipe Massa driving a Ferrari won the Bahrain Formula
One Grand Prix here on Sunday to record his third career victory.


Englishman Lewis Hamilton was second in a McClaren - becoming the
first driver to finish on the podium in his first three Grand
Prix - and Kimi Raikkonen of Finland in another Ferrari was
third.


World champion Fernando Alonso could finish only fifth.


Massa - who had vowed not to repeat his mistake last time out in
Malaysia when he failed to win despite starting on pole and
allowed Hamilton to outfox him - led from the off with Hamilton
tracking him while Alonso was in third and Raikkonen fourth.


However after the first set of pitstops Raikkonen displaced
Alonso in third and held a two second advantage over the Spaniard
with 31 laps remaining.


Hamilton, though, started losing half a second a lap to Massa and
with 28 laps remaining was eight seconds adrift of the leader.


Hamilton - named after US athletics legend Carl Lewis - assumed
the lead with 16 laps remaining after Massa pitted for the second
time while Alonso moved into second and the Brazilian came out in
third.


The Englishman - watched by his stepmother and brother - pitted
for the second time with 13 of the 57 laps remaining and came out
in second as Massa slipped past him with Raikkonen just failing
to pass him as he came out of the pit lane.


Hamilton made a late charge to turn the pressure on Massa, while
Alonso failed to throw down the gauntlet and dropped to fifth.


David Coulthard's smooth progress up the field from the back of
the grid looked like yielding some points until the Scot's
frustrating season continued as he had to pull in for good with
20 laps remaining thanks to a drive shaft problem.


He was followed by his Red Bull team-mate Mark Webber, who was
also challenging for points but the Australian's race came to an
end with 15 laps remaining.


Fellow Briton Jenson Button's fears of it not being a productive
weekend proved correct as he crashed out on the first lap, after
a collision with American pilot Scott Speed.

