

Residents of a Casablanca suburb were in shock Sunday, a day
after two brothers seen to be quiet and industrious blew
themselves up in the latest suicide attacks to rock Morocco.


"How could my two sons do this?" cried their 65-year-old father,
Abed Maha. "I don't understand what happened. I saw nothing.
Those that trained them should be severely punished."


"The Maha brothers were quiet and well-educated. One never saw
them lounging in the street," said Abdelkader, who owns a shop
opposite where the two bombers lived in the working-class Derb
Sultan area of the port city.


On Saturday, 32-year-old Mohamed Maha set off explosives 40
metres (150 feet) from the heavily guarded entrance to the US
consular building in Casablanca.


After the explosion, his younger brother Omar, 20, ran off along
the Boulevard Moulay Youssef towards the American Language
Centre, a private school, where he blew himself up.


Mohamed printed T-shirts for a clothing company while his brother
worked as a street vendor.


Sitting on the terrace of a cafeteria in the teeming quarter,
filled with street vendors selling cheap Chinese or smuggled
goods, a man who identified himself as Driss said the younger
brother Omar was "a bit of an introvert".


"One had the feeling that he was somewhere else," he said. "I
think the terrorists used his vulnerability to make him join up."


Lamfaddal, a tailor who knew the two since their childhood, was
dumbstruck.


"They were quiet and above suspicion," he said. "I never thought
they could do such a thing."


Five suicide bombers have killed themselves in Casablanca in as
many days.


The attacks, coupled with fresh coordinated bombings in the
Algerian capital, have fuelled fears of increased militant
strikes across North Africa.


In Casablanca, the authorities tightened security around the US,
Belgian, Italian and Spanish consulates. Washington has meanwhile
warned of a high risk of violence against Americans in Casablanca
and advised them to stay home.


Local residents on Sunday described the brothers' last day down
to the minutest detail.


A waiter at a nearby cafe said Mohamed had got up early to
perform his ablutions and offer dawn prayers before waking his
younger brother for their suicide mission.


They lived in two modest rooms with their father, a retired truck
driver, and their stepmother and sister.


A security guard at a bank opposite the US consulate was one of
the last people to see Mohamed alive.


"He was dressed in jeans, a black pullover and worn espadrilles.
He looked miserable," just before setting off the bomb, the 45
-year-old said.


A local octogenarian described the bombings as the work of Satan.


"The devil got hold of them," said Oum Aicha. "One day, God will
tell us that."

