

A trio of Moscow clubs were heading the  Russian Premier League
following this weekend's round of matches.


Reigning champions CSKA, nine-time champions Spartak and FC
Moscow share the top spot of the table all on 11 points from five
matches.


CSKA dominated the game against Nalchik right from the kick-off
but failed to find the net in the first halftime.


They lacked sharpness in front of goal, while the visitors
defended stoutly and were dangerous on the counter-attack.


After the interval, CSKA added power and precision, pinning their
opponents back, but missed a hatfull of chances before scoring
the opening goal in the 70th minute.


The Red Army side's Brazilian forward Jo netted from a teammate's
cross from the left despite the presence of Nalchik goalkeeper
Dejan Radic.


In the 80th minute CSKA Serbian midfielder Milos Krasic dribled
towards the visitors' net and forced defender Miodrag Judovic to
send the ball into his own net in attempt to stop the cross.


Meanwhile, nine-time champions Spartak Moscow were trailing 1-0
at Tomsk as the hosts midfielder Valery Klimov put his side 1-0
up 22 minutes into the match with a close-range header.


Spartak poured into the attack looking for an equaliser, but
failed to level before the break as the hosts were stifling
Spartak attacks at the far approaches to their net.


In the second half, Spartak switched gear and pulled level with
18 minutes remaining through substitute Artem Dzyuba, who netted
with a close range header from Dmitry Torbinsky's cross.


In the 80th minute Spartak missed a clear chance to clinch the
lead, when Tomsk goalkeeper Vasily Khomutovsky parried the
skipper Yegor Titov's penalty-kick effort.


FC Moscow were also trailing 1-0 at Kazan after the hosts
midfielder Alexander Ryazantsev netted the opening goal when the
game was just 11 minutes old.


But FC Moscow halfback Sergei Semak saved the day for his side as
he levelled the scores 11 minutes later sweeping in a rebound
from his Argentinian teammate striker Hector Brakamonte's shot
from just inside the box.

