

At least 21 people were killed during Saturday's state
governorship and parliamentary polls across Nigeria, a senior
police officer said Sunday.


"We have about 21 persons killed including some police officers
while trying to protect INEC (Independent National Electoral
Commission) officers, Police Inspector General Sunday Ehindero
told Radio Nigeria.


"Of course we have some wounded too -- about 14. We have some
arms recovered. We have about 218 suspects arrested," he added.


The news came as Nigerian awaited, with some degree of anxiety,
the results of the elections, amid fears that the news in some
states such as Lagos could trigger violent incidents.


The first results could be announced in early afternoon, said
Philip Umeadi, an official from the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC).


"The late start in many polling stations has led to a delay in
the announcement of results", Umeadi told journalists.


Saturday's vote was marked by a number of incidents that the
European Union observer mission called "worrisome".


Local media gave wildly differing figures for Saturday's
casualties but all were much higher than the official police
figures. Media estimates ranged from just over 40 to more than
130.


Ehindero said on the radio broadcast that his figure of 21 could
yet rise and that they were investigating a range of crimes.


"We have 87 cases reported throughout the country, including
arson, murder cases, thumb- printing of ballot papers, etc.," he
said.


Security remained tight Sunday ahead of the announcement of
results, notably in Lagos, where an AFP correspondent saw dozens
of road blocks manned by soldiers carrying out searches on
vehicles and individuals.


Radio Nigeria also reported on Sunday the presence of soldiers on
the streets of other large Nigerian cities such Akure, Abeokuta,
Osogbo, Bauchi, Ilorin and Gombe.


"We are deployed here to ensure a strict observance to security.
We will only leave on the instruction of the officers who
deployed us here," a sergeant at one of the check points told AFP
after a serach.


According to an opinion poll published on Saturday by This Day
newspaper, the results in 16 out of 36 states could be too close
to call.


One of those states is the Lagos, which has been controlled by an
opposition party, the Action Congress, for the past eight years.


The ruling PDP, which currently controls 28 states, has vowed to
conquer Lagos this time round.


There are fears that if INEC does announce a PDP victory for
Lagos, supporters of governor Bola Tinubu could stage violent
demonstrations.


The Nigerian electoral agency INEC said Friday that it would not
release partial results for any of the elections.


This would be the case both for Saturday's state governorship and
state assembly polls and next Saturday's presidential and
National Assembly polls.


"Only complete and definitive election results will be announced.
There is no provision for release of bits and and pieces of
result for any election," said an INEC statement.


The April 21 presidential and national assembly polls are
expected to usher in Nigeria's first civilian-to-civilian
transition since the former British colony gained independence in
1960.

