

Wigan squandered a golden opportunity to ease their relegation
fears as they allowed Tottenham to fight back three times to earn
a 3-3 draw on Sunday.


Paul Jewell's side went ahead through Emile Heskey but Dimitar
Berbatov levelled for Spurs, then Leighton Baines restored the
hosts' lead, only for Robbie Keane to equalise in a thrilling
first half at the JJB Stadium.


Kevin Kilbane put Wigan back in front after the break, but once
again they were unable to hold on as poor defending let Keane in
to earn Spurs a point.


Wigan are just three points above the relegation zone after their
winless run extended to five matches and if they do go down this
is a game they will look back on with regret.


The Latics had desperately needed to get off to a good start but
even they would have been surprised how quickly they went in
front.


Tottenham were unable to fully clear Denny Landzaat's first
minute free-kick and, when Matt Jackson's shot was headed weakly
by Phil Ifil to Heskey, the England international was on hand to
stab home at the second attempt.


Heskey's strike was timed at just 55 seconds, but it took Spurs
just three minutes to draw level.


Keane's trickery took him into the area and he laid off a pass
for his strike partner Berbatov. The Bulgarian evaded two
challenges and drove a low shot past John Filan for his 20th goal
of the season.


However, Wigan are nothing if not determined and they regained
the lead after half an hour.


There appeared to be little danger when Michael Dawson headed
Kilbane's cross out to the left edge of the penalty area. But
Baines has shown his ability from long range several times theis
season and he hit a dipping half-volley that gave Paul Robinson
no chance as it flashed into top corner.


Yet Wigan were unable to build on their lead and Spurs were back
on level terms after 35 minutes.


Jermaine Jenas was shoved in the back by Baines as he surged into
the area, but it was Filan's sliding challenge on the Spurs
midfielder that sent him stumbling to the turf.


Referee Graham Poll pointed to the spot and Keane wrong-footed
Filan to easily convert the penalty.


There was no sign of an end-to-end encounter slowing and it took
a fine stop from Robinson to deny Paul Scharner after the
Austrian had met Emmerson Boyce's cross with a diving header. The
danger wasn't over and Kilbane should have buried the rebound,
but headed tamely over.


Wigan didn't have to wait long to get their third goal of a
superb match in the 60th minute. Ryan Taylor whipped over an
inswinging corner and Kilbane muscled his way in front of Didier
Zokora to thump a header past Robinson.


But Jewell's side continued to display a complete lack of
defensive nous and a misjudgement by Jackson gave Keane his
second equaliser after 68 minutes.


Robinson sent a huge punt down field and centre-back Jackson
allowed the ball to bounce through to Keane, who brilliantly
lobbed Filan from 25 yards.

