

Russian giant Nikolay Valuev vowed to bounce back and regain a
world title despite seeing Uzbek Ruslan Chagaev end his unbeaten
record in a majority points victory here on Saturday.


Valuev went down by scores of 115-113 and 117-111 with the third
judge scoring the bout as a 114-114 draw.


It meant the seven-feet tall St Petersburg native missed out on
the chance to close in on Rocky Marciano's record 49-bout winning
run - Valuev saw his run ended at 46 wins.


"I committed too many mistakes," admitted Valuev. "I did not
throw enough punches and also had trouble finding my feet.


"I am respectful of my opponent and have to admit that the
decision was okay. The better fighter won."


But despite his humble and honest assessment of the fight, Valuev
still believes he can be a major force in the heavyweight
division.


"There is no reason for me to put myself into a coffin. I will
keep boxing and will be good enough to move back up the rankings
in the WBA and get a new title shot soon.


"I hope Ruslan will stay champion long enough for me to get a
second chance. I would be happy to box him again."


Despite giving away almost a foot in height and more than 90
pounds in weight, 'The White Tyson's greater work-rate and
fearless approach saw him claim a deserved victory and a first
world title.


But Valuev's promoter Wilfried Sauerland is also convinced this
is not the end of the road for the 'Giant Russian'.


"It certainly was an exciting encounter and a great night of
boxing - except for the outcome," Sauerland stated. "It was very
close.


"Those who have followed Nikolay's career could see that he has
again shown great improvement. He will keep working on his game
and I think in at least one year he will be the WBA's top
challenger again."


Valuev's co-promoter Don King was not too disheartened, despite
losing out on the prospect of a money-spinning unification super-
fight against IBF champion Wladimir Klitschko.


"I am very proud of Nikolay," said King. "It was a great fight.
Niko will come back and attack again. It was a David versus
Goliath battle and the winners are boxing and the people."

