

Austrian Markus Brier enjoyed a five-stroke victory after firing
a final round of four-under-par 67 at the Volvo China Open on
Sunday.


Brier blasted a winning total of 10-under-274 and emerged as the
first Austrian to triumph at a co-sanctioned Asian Tour and
European Tour event.


Brier enjoyed a comfortable five-stroke win over Australia's
Scott Hend, who was even-par on the final day together with
Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland, who shot a 69 and South
African Andrew McLardy who scored a 70 in joint second place at
the Shanghai Silport Golf Club.


"I dreamed about winning yesterday and thought it would be good.
The Volvo China Open is a great tournament to win. I have been to
China quite a few times and I have always played well," said
Brier, who won the BA-CA Golf Open, presented by Telekom Austria
on the European Tour last year.


He previously won the event in 2002 and 2004, when it was staged
on the Challenge Tour. All three tournaments were held at Fontana
Golf Club, which was his home course in Vienna.


The win at the Volvo China Open was Brier's maiden triumph
outside of Austria, with victory worth 333,330 dollars.


Hend, who is playing in his first ever season on the Asian Tour,
earned US$149,140 for his efforts this week and leaped to fourth
spot on the Asian Tour's UBS Order of Merit, with total earnings
of 189,420 dollars.


With softer greens due to overnight showers, the 38-year-old
champion was quick off the start, striking two birdies on the
second and third holes before a dropped shot on the fourth.
Brier, who turned pro in 1995, then pulled away from Hend with
two more birdies on the eighth and ninth holes. The Austrian
ended his round in style with a five-foot birdie putt on the 18th
hole for the win.


"I tried not to think too much about winning today and I was
fortunate not to be too nervous on the last three or four holes.
I holed some long putts and my putting was very good because the
greens were in good shape.


"That was the key, as I didn't hit it really close but holed a
lot of five-, six- and seven-yard putts," admitted the champion.


"It makes me feel like a better player now as at home I always
had the home advantage. It is a very good win here and it was the
next step to win abroad," added Brier.


Hend, who was two under after nine holes, was disappointed with
his run on the back nine when he suffered two straight bogeys on
the 10th and 11th holes. He slipped down the leaderboard with a
third bogey on the 17th but pulled one back with a birdie on the
last hole.


"I am pretty disappointed. I hope to digest it. But I'm sure I'll
put this behind me by tomorrow," said Hend, who delivered a
similar result at the Pakistan Open in January.

