

US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales insisted Sunday he did
nothing improper in firing eight federal prosecutors, despite
charges the attorneys had been let go for political reasons.


"I know that I did not -- and would not -- ask for the
resignation of any US attorney for an improper reason," Gonzales
wrote in The Washington Post Sunday, ahead of testimony Tuesday
before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday.


"I have no basis to believe that anyone involved in this process
sought the removal of a US attorney for an improper reason," he
wrote.


Most of the attorneys were fired in one fell swoop last December,
ostensibly for poor performance. Senators were expected to
concentrate on the possible role played in the firings by Karl
Rove, Bush's chief political adviser.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews -- a discovery that fueled allegations
that in reality, the dismissals were politically motivated.


The controversy over the firing of prosecutors has indirectly led
to the disclosure about the loss of White House e-mails.
Democrats are now asking if some White House officials, beginning
with Rove, may have destroyed these documents in order to prevent
them from falling in the hands of Congress.


The New York Times in an editorial Sunday called for Rove to
appear before Congress to clear up the controversy.


"The only solution is to get these issues out into the open,"
Times editors wrote.


"Mr. Rove, who seems to be at the heart of this affair, should
also be required to testify under oath, and in public," the daily
wrote.


Skeptics were given new ammunition last month when Democratic
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California revealed that San Diego US
attorney Carol Lam had been fired after she notified the Justice
Department that she intended to execute search warrants on Kyle
Dustin "Dusty" Foggo, the third-ranking CIA official at the time,
as part of an anti-corruption investigation.


Foggo was a close friend and associate of former Republican
congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who in late 2005 pleaded
guilty to accepting 2.4 million dollars in bribes and is now in
jail.


In a departure from his earlier statement, Gonzales acknowledged
that last year, he had directed his then-deputy chief of staff,
Kyle Sampson, to initiate this process of dismissals and approved
his final recommendations.


But Gonzales argued that during his conversations with Sampson,
he "did not make decisions about who should or should not be
asked to resign."

