

Ernesto Bertarelli, the billionaire backer of America's Cup
titleholder Alinghi, sounded a warning across the bows of the
Swiss boat's challengers here Sunday - telling them his team
would not relinquish its crown lying down.


"The beauty of the America's Cup is the match - it's like a
corrida. Two beings enter the arena and only one comes out
alive," the 41-year-old Swiss pharmaceutical magnate said in a
rare public apppearance.


He added: "As far as I'm concerned our sole objective is to
defend the Cup."


Bertarelli, who has a personal fortune put at 8.8 billion
dollars, was appearing at a press conference held on the eve of
the Louis Vuitton Cup which will determine which of the 11
challengers goes on to meet Alinghi in the America's Cup in June.


Placed within arm's reach of the head of the Swiss syndicate was
the America's Cup itself - the 'Auld Mug' - which for the past
four years has been sitting on a sideboard at the Societe
Nautique de Geneve.


On the other side of sport's oldest and possibly most elaborate
trophy was Bertarelli's arch rival - the software computer tycoon
Larry Ellison who with a personal fortune of 21.5bn makes
Alinghi's owner appear almost hard up.


The head of the BMW Oracle team, responding to his Swiss foe's
corrida analogy, retorted: "We are just hoping to come out alive
from the bullfight."


The four-time married Ellison who was brought up by an aunt and
only met his mother when he was 48, reckons the three year long
series of preliminary regattas has had a sharp impact on each
team's' performance


"The entire fleet has lifted its game," he said.


He denied it had played into the hands of the defender, arguing:
"They (the regattas) have allowed everybody to learn from
everybody else. We're all sailing faster. They've levelled the
playing field much more than if we'd stayed at home.


"It's going to be closer racing than in New Zealand (in 2003)."


Bertarelli agreed, saying: "Last week I pulled out the archive
footage of the 2003 Cup and it's surprising the step forward all
the teams have made.


"It's like 1970s football, you have the impression that the
players are walking rather than running.


"The pre-regattas we've had have brought the level of competition
to a different level."


A question from the floor - asking why the Alinghi base at
Valencia's Port America's Cup was flying a New Zealand maori flag
- then caught him momentarily off guard.


"I've only just arrived and didn't notice we had a different flag
on top of our unit but if that's the case I like flags."


If Oracle fall short in what is being called 'the Battle of
Valencia' then it could well be Team New Zealand who emerge to
confront Alinghi.


The Kiwi challenge has risen out of the ashes of the humbling 5-0
whitewash inflicted on them in Auckland four years ago.


And the man heading their bid, Grant Dixon, alluding to the
personal wealth of team owners like Bertarelli and Ellison,
smiled: "As I'm only a trustee of our team I'm the poorest person
up here!"


New Zealand have built their challenge on what by America's Cup
standards at least is a modest budget, a point Dixon suggested
could be turned into a positive.


"We've got a medium sized budget, we have to make every penny
count. It makes us focus on the central issues.


"If you've got too much money you can end up experimenting on all
sorts of crazy things."


He said the manner of New Zealand's capitulation four years ago
had hurt badly.


"We were disappointed to lose the America's Cup and more
disappointed about the way we lost the final. It was a poor
performance.


"But the whole country is now taking pride in the fact that we're
back up near the point. It's great to be in Europe and showing
some pride in our performance."


Dixon's men are up against Italy's Mascalzone Latino-Capitalia
Team in the first of Monday's Round Robin matches.


The Louis Vuitton Cup runs through to June 12 with the winner
going on to face Alinghi in the best of nine match races for the
America's Cup from June 23.

