

The West Indies are eyeing a pair of wins not only to sustain
their slim World Cup semi-final hopes, but also to put themsleves
in a confident frame of mind ahead of a tour to England.


The hosts desperately need victories in their remaining two Super
Eights matches against Bangladesh and England to stay in
contention for the semi-finals, having secured just two points
from five games.


"These are very important matches for us as we have got a tour of
England coming up. It's important to get back the confidence and
momentum before that," West Indies vice-captain Ramnaresh Sarwan
said here on Sunday.


"We start the tour a couple of weeks after this tournament, so it
is very important for us to win these two matches."


The West Indies are scheduled to tour England in May.


Defending champions Australia, New Zealand and Sri Lanka have
already qualified for the semi-finals.


The West Indies vice-captain conceded his team had only a slender
chance of qualifying for the semi-finals after having lost all
the four matches in the second round.


"There's only a slight chance of making it to the semi-finals.
What we need to do is to concentrate hard on winning the two
games. We also need to win them by big margins," said Sarwan,
tipped to replace Brian Lara as the captain.


"If given an opportunity (to lead the side), I'll try to do my
best and whosoever is given the captaincy will get my full
support," Sarwan said, adding there was a possibility of
different skippers for Tests and one-dayers.


"You have to wait and see as there are still two more matches
left."


Lara has already said he is quitting one-day cricket after the
World Cup.


Sarwan said the inconsistent batting was the main reason for the
team's below- par performances in the second round, which had
left their fans disappointed.


"We have not been batting well in this tournament. The only game
we batted well was against South Africa when we scored more than
250, but that was not good enough," said Sarwan.


"Of course, they (fans) are disappointed as we have not played
well. We are sorry for the way we have played, but we want them
to continue supporting us and give us the confidence to move
forward.


"We always knew there'll be a lot of pressure on us in front of
home fans, and probably some of the guys did not handle it too
well."


The West Indies will now meet Bangladesh here on Thursday and
England on Saturday.


"Bangladesh have improved a lot and come a long way. They are no
more minnows and have done very well in this tournament. We are
not taking them lightly as they have quite a few good young
players," said Sarwan.


Bangladesh have already posted two big wins in the tournament,
beating former champions India in a group match in Trinidad last
month and then top-ranked South Africa in a Super Eights match in
Guyana.


The West Indies are still searching for their first victory in
the second round.

