

Bangladesh's left-arm spinners Mohammad Rafique and Abdur Razzak
said Sunday they were happy with their team's progress at
international level.


The Asian Tigers have had an impressive run at the World Cup.


They upset former champions India by five wickets to qualify for
the second round for the first time.


Habibul Bashar's men also caused another huge upset by beating
South Africa by 67 runs in a Super Eights match to kepe alive
their outside hopes of a semi- final place.


Rafique and Razzak as well as fellow left-arm spinner Saqibul
Hasan played a key role in South Africa's demolition and are
regarded as the most potent spin combination in this World Cup.


"Bangladesh have improved day by day, and being in the second
round is great. It will raise interest in the game back home,"
said 37-year-old Rafique, who has been playing since Bangladesh's
first Test against India in 2000.


"We have worked really hard and at this level, and it has paid
off. The harder you work, the more relaxed you will be on the
field. Otherwise, there will be a lot of pressure during the
match. The hard work takes the pressure away from the play."


As a senior man, Rafique is inclined to help the younger players.


"The young generation is coming up well. One player cannot be
playing forever. Players like this are coming in to fill my role.
That's very good for the development of Bangladesh cricket and I
am happy to play my part," said Rafique who had 116 wickets in
119 matches before Sunday's clash with Ireland.


"The young players in Bangladesh have a lot of belief in
themselves. We have a good number of spinners coming up and I
hope they make their mark."


Rafique believed training hard is the key to his success.


"I train hard, run a little bit, do a little gym or a little
cycling. I can keep bowling at even 10 batsmen and never get
tired.


"And these are the things you can do because there is never an
end to learning. I learn a lot from them and teach them too."


Rafique believes Bangladesh will raise the bar in the next few
years.


"I feel that in another 10-15 years, Bangladesh will be playing
at the level of the other international teams. The main thing is
we have to keep believing in ourselves."


In contrast, Razzak's career suffered an initial jolt when his
bowling action was reported in 2004 but it has never impeded his
progress.


"I was not bothered at all. I worked even harder with my coaches
to overcome the problems and now I am here playing my first World
Cup and have my own success," said 24-year-old Razzak.


"This is my first World Cup and I wanted it to be a memorable
one. I have tried a few things, bowled regularly during the
powerplays which is a challenge I enjoy and the team has also
performed very well," said Razzak, the main wicket- taker for
Bangladesh with 12 in the tournament.


Rafique with eight and Hasan with five have shouldered the team's
bowling attack and made their World Cup campaign the most
memorable one so far.

