

Two people were killed and one very seriously wounded Sunday when
two British military helicopters crashed in Iraq, Defence
Secretary Des Browne said.


The crash appeared to be an accident, Browne said, while Prime
Minister Tony Blair said it would be a time of "great grief and
anguish" for the families of those killed.


The Puma helicopters, which normally carry up to 16 people with a
crew of three, came down in the early hours of the morning in a
rural area southwest of Taji, home to a huge American military
base north of Baghdad.


"There were six casualties as a result of this incident. Two
personnel were killed: one from the Royal Air Force and one from
the Army," Browne said outside the defense ministry.


"Of the four who were injured, two have been discharged back to
their operational units. Another two remain in a United States
hospital, one of whom is very seriously injured."


The deaths brought to 142 the number of British fatalities in
Iraq since the US- led invasion in March 2003.


Of the previous 140, 109 have died in action, while 31 have died
as a result of accidents, non-combat injuries or illness.


Britain has about 7,100 troops in Iraq, mostly in the south. The
government has said it will withdraw about 1,600 soldiers this
year.


Browne said both the helicopters were on "routine operational
flights."


"The information I have received suggests to me that this
incident was caused by an accident rather than by an attack.
There will of course be an investigation into the precise cause,"
he said.


"I should stress that Puma helicopters have a very good safety
record.


"Both our helicopters were damaged in the incident but it is our
intention to recover both of them and I am very grateful to the
United States security forces for securing the area of the crash.


"This incident is another reminder of the very grave risks that
our brave servicemen and women take every single day in carrying
out their important duties," Browne said.


The BBC, citing military sources, said the helicopters were
taking part in a special forces operation, which would explain
why the incident occurred so far north of where British troops
are based: the main southern city of Basra.


The US military said the crash appeared to be the result of a
mid-air collision.


Blair told BBC television: "I reflect again as we've lost forces
in Iraq today -- for the families this is always a terrible time,
a time of great grief and anguish.


"But what our forces are doing there, what British forces are
doing in Iraq and Afghanistan, is they are fighting the same
forces of terrorism and extremism that are operating around the
world today.


"And I believe in time people will realise why it is important
that we fight these people wherever they are."


Browne is due to speak in parliament Monday on British operations
in Iraq and Afghanistan.


He is expected to be grilled by MPs about the controversial
decision to allow British sailors who had been held captive by
Iran to sell their stories to the media, and about his handling
of the debacle, with some commentators saying his job is on the
line.

