

The presence of China, South Africa and Germany for the first
time has added spice to the 32nd edition of the America's Cup.


Realistically none of the debut trio can hold out much hope of
earning the right to challenge the defender Alinghi by winning
the Louis Vuitton Cup which starts here Monday.


But each of the rookies are savouring the experience of competing
in the sailing blue riband - that attitude flying in the face of
the Cup's motto that "there is no second."


China's boat - The Son of Dragon - has failed to breathe fire in
the preliminary regattas where after the 13 preliminary Acts
staged since the last America's Cup in 2003 it came in plum last
of the 11 challengers.


Just ahead of them in the table came United Team Germany and the
South Africans' Team Shosholoza but despite these low rankings
the trio were bubbling with enthusiasm on the eve of the Louis
Vuitton here Sunday.


And all of them have vowed to return wiser and stronger for the
next edition. China's backer is Wang Chaoyang, who was first
smitten by the sailing bug in New York 20 years ago when he
worked on Wall Street.


"Everyone said I was crazy entering a boat for the America's Cup.
We've got the smallest budget of 14 million US dollars but you've
got to remember the average GDP in China last year was only 1,000
US dollars.


"That shows our determination," he told AFP.


Wang added: "China has a long tradition of sailing but we're
totally new to this, the America's Cup has never had a footprint
in China or Asia.


"Through the China team we want to bring it closer to our people.
Our team spirit and innovation is in line with our society and
we're here to build a stronger platform for the future."


The Son of Dragon's performance, Wang says, is being tracked by
an audience of up to 900 million viewers on China's main sports
channel and he believes apart from raising awareness of the
America's Cup back home the Son of Dragon's endeavours will have
a knock on effect next year at the Beijing Olympics.


"We're helping raise the standard of Chinese yachtsman preparing
for the Olympics," he said.


His enthusiasm was mirrored by captain Salvatore Sarno, a Durban-
based industrialist and the man behind South Africa's first tilt
at the Cup.


"We've grown in experience over the past three years," he said of
the team that enjoys the patronage of Archbishop Desmond Tutu.
"We're growing up," he added.


"We've had to learn a lot very fast and we're not planning to
throw that all away - our intention is to participate in the next
one."


Over at United Team Germany Michael Scheeren said their bid had
generated huge interest back home.


"The media coverage in sports magazines and newspapers and on
television is extremely strong. Apart from Italy we've probably
got the most coverage in Europe. That support has been an
important part of our campaign."


He said he too had been bitten by the America's Cup bug.


"I've got the virus!" he proclaimed proudly. "We've undergone a
steep learning curve in the last two years and we'll be back next
time with a better German team."


Germany has something of a baptism of fire on the opening day of
the Louis Vuitton with a first match race against American
heavyweights BMW Oracle Racing.


The Chinese come up against former finalists Luna Rossa of Italy
with fellow Italians Victory Challenge taking on Team Shosholoza.

