

Taiwan's former vice president Lien Chan will fly to China Monday
to attend a forum jointly sponsored by the opposition Kuomintang
(KMT) and their mainland Chinese counterparts, a report said
Sunday.


The forum, to be held in Beijing from April 28-29, would focus on
ways to bring about the so-called "three direct links" --
transport, postal services and commerce -- between Taiwan and
mainland China, which have been cut since 1949, Taipei's
government-funded Central News Agency (CNA) said.


It said a delegation of 28 KMT legislators would depart for
Beijing on April 27 for the forum. Lien would use his time on the
mainland until then in a personal capacity.


Cargo and passenger services do exist between Taiwan and mainland
China, but they operate via other destinations, mainly Hong Kong.


Calls for the resumption of direct links have increased, given
ever closer economic ties, but Taiwan says government-level
negotiations with Beijing are required before any band can be
lifted.


The CNA said the forum would also touch on cross-strait
educational and cultural exchanges, as well as Beijing's planned
lifting of a ban on visits to Taiwan by Chinese tourists.


"Lien's trip again shows the KMT is striving for peace rather
than striving for independence. It would give Taiwan people
another option" in deciding the island's future, Chang Jung-kung,
the KMT's chief in charge of mainland affairs was quoted by CNA
as saying.


The KMT favours improved ties with Beijing, in contrast to the
island's ruling independence-leaning Democratic Progressive Party
(DPP).


Lien in 2005 became the first KMT leader to visit the mainland in
56 years, when he met Chinese President Hu Jintao to formally end
hostilities between the two parties.


They issued a statement agreeing to push for cross-strait talks
and seek closer ties in trade, tourism and other areas.


The KMT fled to Taiwan in 1949 after losing a civil war on the
mainland to the communists. China still regards the island as
part of its territory awaiting reunification, by force if
necessary.


Lien visited China again in April last year, calling for stronger
trade ties with the mainland as a bridge to cross-strait peace
and prosperity.

