

Lyon ensured they can wrap up a record sixth consecutive league
title on Wednesday after securing a 1-0 home victory over Sedan
on Sunday, a result that ensured another record was set in
France.


Lyon hold a 17-point lead at the top of the table and can clinch
the title if they beat Rennes at home on Wednesday.


However, the most remarkable statistic of this weekend of matches
was the lack of goals. With just eight goals scored in the 10
games, six of which finished 0-0, the French league produced an
average of just 0.8 goals per game over the weekend programme,
beating the previous record of 0.9 set early in the 1986/87
season.


It is perhaps fitting that the French league has found itself in
such a drab situation this season, where the most remarkable
event is the breaking of an unwanted record.


The season seemed effectively over before teams had played even
10 matches.


By then, Marseille's early season promise had proved a false dawn
- they had won five and drawn one of their opening six matches -
and the dominant champions Lyon had opened up a sizeable gap by
the quarter-season mark.


Since then the league has been nothing more than a procession
with Lyon steadily incresing their lead up to Christmas, after
which it has remained largely unchanged.


The victory over Sedan, courtesy of Hatem Ben Arfa's volley from
Anthony Reveillere's cross a minute before the break, was hardly
a surprise.


Lyon dominated throughout and should have won by a much larger
margin with Sylvain Wiltord, Kim Kallstrom, Juninho, Jeremy
Toulalan and Ben Arfa all missing good chances.


Portugal midfielder Tiago almost denied the French league it's
new dismal statistic but his audacious lob deep into injury time
hit the woodwork.


It all means that Lyon can start their celebrations if they beat
Rennes in midweek, although for them not to be celebrating at the
season's end they would have to lose every remaining game and
Toulouse, second after a 2-0 win over Auxerre on Saturday, would
need to claim a maximum three points in their remaining six
games.


Saturday's action was anything but that with six of the eight
games played ending in goalless stalemates.


Other than Toulouse's two goals from Achille Emana and Fode
Mansare, Lille managed a brace in their 2-0 win over Sochaux.


That was all the scoring on Saturday but Nice and St Etienne
played out the highest scoring game of the weekend on Sunday.


Nice eased their relegation worries and moved out of the bottom
three with a vital 2-1 victory over the visitors, whose record 10
French league titles may soon be coming under threat from Lyon.


On Saturday, PSG also eased their drop zone concerns by gaining a
valuable point at Bordeaux.


The point did little to help Bordeaux's Champions League push,
although at least they did not drop any further out of contention
as their main rivals were all held to draws.


For PSG, though, the draw kept them three points ahead of the
relegation zone and manager Paul Le Guen looked at it as a point
gained rather than two lost.


"That shows we're still in there with the rest of them, we're in
the battle," said Le Guen.


"The fact that we've taken seven points from a possible nine in
the last three matches is good for us but it's not enough, we
need seven more points but at least it allows us to be in a
better position."


The result left the capital giants in 16th place but having been
deep in the relegation zone a couple of weeks ago, Le Guen will
be far from unhappy about the result.

