

Former US envoy Bill Richardson said on Sunday he was optimistic
North Korea will begin taking steps to shut down its nuclear
program despite failing to meet a promised deadline at the
weekend.


Richardson, who served as US ambassador to the United Nations
during former president Bill Clinton's administration, said he
believed North Korea would allow in UN inspectors and move to
shut down a nuclear reactor as part of an international
agreement.


"My prediction ... is that early this week, they will invite the
inspectors. They will start the process of shutting down the
reactor," said Richardson, governor of the US state of New
Mexico, in an interview with ABC television.


Richardson, a Democratic presidential hopeful who has conducted
negotiations in the past with North Korea, said he had received
positive assurances during a visit to North Korea last week as
part of a US delegation.


"They committed to me on April 12, my last day in North Korea
with a bipartisan delegation, that they would shut down the
reactor shortly, that they would also invite international
inspectors to monitor that, shut down their reprocessing
facility," Richardson said.


Under a breakthrough February 13 deal, the North was supposed to
shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor within 60 days -- a
deadline that expired Saturday -- and to invite UN inspectors
back in.


But the impoverished Stalinist state has refused to budge until
it has confirmed US assertions that 25 million dollars of cash
has been released from a Macau bank where it had been frozen by
sanctions since 2005.


Richardson said it was "frustrating" North Korea had missed the
deadline but said the leadership had made a strategic decision to
dismantle its program.


"I believe they've made the strategic decision, the North
Koreans, and I've been there six times. I know them. They're very
difficult but I do believe that they've made that decision to
move forward," Richardson said.


"But at the same time, the nuclear card is their biggest asset so
they're going to play it to the hilt."


Richardson travelled to North Korea last week in a US delegation
to receive the recovered remains of US servicemen killed during
the Korean war, which he said on Sunday was an encouraging sign.


"The fact that they turned over to our bipartisan delegation the
remains of six Americans, six fallen heroes from the Korean war,
unconditionally, without strings attached, was a gesture -- a
reconciliation gesture -- that I believe is going to lead to
continued progress and cooperation," he said.


He said the North Korean regime was often difficult to negotiate
with but said the country would opt to cooperate on the nuclear
deal.


"They're unpredictable. They're isolated," he said.


"But at the same time, I do believe that next week they're going
to come forward and say, 'We're shutting down this reactor, we're
inviting the international inspectors, we're going to go into the
second phase of negotiations to turn off a lot of our other
nuclear assets."

