

A little-known Islamic group claimed Sunday to have killed
kidnapped BBC Gaza correspondent Alan Johnston, but there has
been no independent verification.


So far no Westerner has been killed after being abducted in the
increasingly lawless Gaza Strip.


Following is a list of the hostage-takings since July 2005:


2005


- July 13: Two engineers from Britain and Austria are held for a
day by a Palestinian family trying to secure the release of
jailed relatives before being released unharmed.


- July 29: An Australian woman and a Palestinian man working for
the UN Development Programme are snatched in Gaza City and
released several hours later.


- Aug 8: Three employees of the UN Relief and Works Agency for
Palestinian refugees, a British woman, a Swiss man and a
Palestinian, are abducted in Khan Yunis. They are released within
a few hours by Palestinian security forces during a raid on a
house.


- Aug 14: Mohammed Ouathi, a French television soundman for
public television France 3, is seized near his hotel in Gaza on
the eve of the start of Israel's pullout from the territory. He
is freed eight days later. Three other crew members from the
channel were able to evade capture.


- Sept 10: Italian journalist Lorenzo Cremonesi of the Corriere
della Sera newspaper is held for several hours in the central
Gaza Strip by members of the Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, an armed
group loosely linked to Palestinian leader Mahmud Abbas's ruling
Fatah faction.


- Oct 12: American journalist Dion Nissenbaum and British
photographer Adam Pletts of the Knight Ridder news organisation
are abducted from the streets of Khan Yunis by a group made up of
Fatah militants.


- Dec 21: The principal of the American School in Gaza, Dutchman
Hendrik Taatgen and his deputy Brian Ambrosio, are kidnapped by
gunmen and released after 12 hours.


- Dec 28: British rights worker Kate Burton and her parents are
kidnapped at gunpoint close to the Rafah border crossing into
Egypt. They were freed on December 30.


2006


- Jan 1: An Italian peace activist is kidnapped and held briefly
by masked gunmen in Khan Yunis.


- Feb 9: Egyptian diplomat Hussam al-Musseli is kidnapped and
held for two days, the first time a diplomat has been targeted.
His abduction is claimed by the previously unknown Al-Ahrar
Brigades.


- March 14: Ten foreigners are kidnapped in Gaza following a
fatal Israeli raid on a prison in Jericho, West Bank. All are
released by the following day.


- Aug 14: Two journalists with US network Fox News, Steve
Centanni and Olaf Wiig, are held for 13 days by an Islamist
group. They are freed unharmed after making a video showing them
converting to Islam.


- Oct 24: Spanish photographer Emilio Morenatti of the Associated
Press news agency is kidnapped in Gaza. He is freed later the
same day. No group claims responsibility.


- Oct 30: Robert Villa, a 34-year-old Spaniard working for an
NGO, Cooperation Assembly for Peace, is briefly kidnapped in
Gaza.


- Nov 21: Two members of the Italian Red Cross, Claudio Moroni
and Gianmarco Onorato, are abducted while driving to Khan Yunis.
They are freed the same evening.


2007


- Jan 1: Agence France-Presse photographer Jaime Razuri is
kidnapped outside the agency's offices in Gaza City.


- Jan 23: A French diplomat and two guards are briefly detained
in the West Bank town of Nablus by activists of Al-Aqsa Martyrs
Brigades.


- March 12: Armed men kidnap a British correspondent for the BBC,
Alan Johnston, after forcing him from his car in the Gaza Strip.


- April 1: Palestinian journalists announce a three-day strike in
protest at what they call their government's inadequate response
to the abduction of Johnston.


- April 12: A month after Johnston was kidnapped, making him the
longest-held Western hostage in the Gaza Strip, the BBC says it
has been assured by Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas that the
reporter is "safe and well."


- April 15: The BBC and Britain's Foreign Office say they are
urgently investigating claims by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed
(The Brigades of Holy War and Unity) group that it has killed
Johnston.

