

At least 21 people died over the weekend during state polls in
Nigeria as tensions mounted in the volatile and sprawling west
African nation ahead of presidential and general elections next
Saturday.


Soldiers fanned out across major cities in the continent's top
oil producer for a second day to quell election-related unrest
after serious irregularities and violence marred Saturday's
regional vote.


"We have about 21 persons killed including some police officers
while trying to protect INEC (Independent National Electoral
Commission) officers," national police boss Sunday Ehindero told
Radio Nigeria after Saturday's vote.


"Of course we have some wounded too -- about 14. We have some
arms recovered. We have about 218 suspects arrested."


Local media gave wildly divergent figures for Saturday's
casualties, ranging from about 40 to more than 130, but all were
far higher than official police figures. Ehindero said his figure
of 21 deaths could yet rise.


"As of now, it could be more than that. We have 87 cases reported
throughout the country, including arson, murder cases, thumb-
printing of ballot papers etc.," he said.


The regional vote is being seen as a litmus test for the success
of next Saturday's elections, expected to usher in Nigeria's
first civilian-to-civilian transition since the former British
colony gained independence in 1960.


Police have banned any form of gathering in support or against
the results of Saturday's polls amid fears of serious unrest in
key states such as Lagos, where the governorship is a position of
considerable clout.


"There should be no form of procession. No form of demonstration
will be tolerated at this stage, at least in the next 48 hours,"
Ehindero said.


His statement came as electoral officials announced complete
results in twelve out of 36 states -- Ogun, Ekiti, Osun, Borno,
Abia, Oyo, Gombe, Ebonyi, Katsina and three oil states: Delta,
Bayelsa and Rivers. The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won
in ten states while opposition parties won in two.


Results of governorship elections in a 13th state, the
southeastern Imo State, were cancelled for electoral malpractice,
INEC spokesman Philip Umeadi said, live on national television.


Outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who led the country briefly
as a military ruler and later served two terms as a civilian
president, voted in his native city of Abeokuta but his ballot
was cancelled along with others as the entire result of the area
was cancelled due to irregularities.


According to witnesses, eight ballot boxes were hijacked in
different polling centres, an action which led to street protests
by voters.


Meanwhile, the governorship of Lagos State -- home to Nigeria's
economic capital and a key province -- was won by Babatunde Raji
Fashiola, a member of the Action Congress party in a blow for
Obasanjo's ruling PDP.


The PDP had said several times that winning Lagos, in the hands
of the opposition Action Congress for the past eight years, was
very important for the party which controls 28 of Nigeria's 36
states.


Tensions have been fueled in Nigeria by irregularities which the
European Union observer mission called "worrisome".


Security remained tight across the country as the results
trickled in, notably in Lagos where soldiers manned dozens of
road blocks and searched vehicles and individuals.


Soldiers were also deployed on the streets of other large cities
such Akure, Abeokuta, Osogbo, Bauchi, Ilorin and Gombe, according
to Radio Nigeria.


Nigeria's National Broadcasting Corporation said 13 radio and
television stations across the country had been fined for
breaching electoral laws by airing election broadcasts less than
24 hours before polling began.


Six of the 13 channels -- including South Africa's DSTV -- the
continent's largest satellite television channel -- are privately
owned.

