

Early results in the race for 2008 presidential campaign cash
were to be released Sunday, offering a critical measure of the
strength of the upcoming White House campaigns.


Final first quarter fundraising results were expected to be filed
by midnight Sunday (0400 GMT Monday), demonstrating the level of
cash-raising prowess that is a key determining factor in campaign
success.


Candidate disclosure reports were expected cement the juggernaut
status of Democrat US senators Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton,
each of whom were likely to raise more than 25 million dollars in
the first quarter, according to estimates.


The files were also expected to confirm early reports that
presidential hopeful John McCain is lagging far behind his
Republican rivals in reaping in donations.


Early cash amount estimates through March 31 have already been
released but the final disclosure statements reveal additional,
critical details about the inner workings of a campaign, showing
the number and type of donors.


They show how much money each donor gave, in an indication of
whether a candidate is strong in institutional or grassroots
support, or both.


The figures are likely to reveal that Obama, who has claimed that
many of his donations were small amounts from individual donors,
also netted a significant number of political insiders with deep
pockets, the Washington Post said Sunday.


Sunday's disclosure statements are seen as important barometers
of the health of a campaign, in that they show not only how much
money candidates have raised, but how much they have left to
spend.


The cost of mounting a presidential challenge is spiraling upward
with each successive election season.


Pundits say the major candidates will each have to raise at least
100 million or more before the first primary and caucus votes are
cast beginning next January.


The first ballots in the presidential primaries and caucus votes
to select candidates is still nine months away, but the battle
for donors starts early.


McCain, for example, has been trailing in opinion polls, even as
his expensive campaign operation burns through cash and has some
1.8 million dollars in unpaid bills.


Once viewed as a Republican frontrunner, the Arizona senator had
5.2 million dollars available by the end of March accrording to
early estimates, less than half the amount of his main Republican
rivals.


His support is said to have fallen in part because of his staunch
support for President George W. Bush's unpopular military
strategy in Iraq -- even in the face of growing public unease
with the US military presence there.


Rival Republican candidate Rudy Giuliani -- former mayor of New
York City -- reported a campaign war chest of 10.8 million.


Meanwhile, Mitt Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, had
11.9 million, according to the early campaign disclosure reports,
which showed he garnered some 20.7 million dollars in
contributions.


Giuliani reported only 89,000 dollars in debts and Romney's only
debt was a 2.35 million dollar loan he made to his campaign from
personal funds.


McCain raised some 13 million dollars during the period -- nearly
as much as Giuliani -- but dipped deeper into his campaign's
coffers, spending some 8.4 million dollars.


Giuliani's campaign is based largely on his leadership after the
September 11, 2001 terror attacks, a role which earned him hero
status in New York City and across the country.


Officials say billions more will likely be spent on US
congressional, state and local races in 2008.

