

Clinical South Africa qualified for the All-Africa Games football
tournament by defeating giantkillers Botswana 2-0     on Sunday.


The South Africans took a two-goal advantage into the second leg
of a third round eliminator against the 'Baby Zebras' and
advanced 4-0 on aggregate to the eight-nation tournament in
Algeria during July.


Lebohang Mokoena from the famous Johannesburg club Orlando
Pirates scored the crucial opening goal after 36 minutes on a
hot, clear afternoon in the Botswana capital.


South Africa broke the deadlock before a near capacity 20,000
crowd against the run of play with territorially dominant
Botswana unable to finish good approach play.


After continuing to soak up pressure during the second half,
South Africa sealed success 12 minutes from full-time thanks to a
low shot from substitute Sibusiso Ntuli from Durban club AmaZulu.


Defeat was a bitter blow for Botswana even though they have
traditionally played second fiddle to their southern Africa
neighbours at all levels of   club and national team football.


Botswana caused a sensation last month by beating Tunisia 1-0 on
aggregate in a second round qualifier for the Olympic Games,
which is restricted to under-23 footballers like the All-Africa
Games.


Zambia came from behind twice to pip Mozambique 3-2 in Lusaka and
clinch a place at the Games despite playing more than half the
return match with 10 men after the dismissal of Rainford Kalaba.


The result completed a 7-2 aggregate triumph for Zambia, who must
have expected a much easier time at home having won so
convincingly in Maputo two   weeks ago.


But Falanga Mendes stunned a predominantly Zambian crowd at
Nkholoma Stadium by heading Mozambique in front after 18 minutes
and scored again with a lob four minutes before half-time after
Kalaba equalised.


Making light of being a man short, Zambia controlled the second
half and Given Singuluma levelled before Felix Nsunzu snatched
the winner seven minutes from full-time.


Guinea surprised Senegal in a west African showdown in Dakar,
squeezing into the quadrennial tournament courtesy of a 4-2
penalty shootout victory after two 1-1 draws.


Defender Oumar Cisse put understrength Guinea ahead on the stroke
of half-time at Demba Diop Stadium in the Senegal capital, a lead
the visitors retained until the closing minutes.


Egypt, Ghana, Tunisia and automatic qualifiers Algeria had
earlier secured berths in the tournament with title holders
Cameroon or Gabon set to complete the line-up.

