

A week before voting starts in France's presidential election
National Front leader Jean-Marie Le Pen launched a virulent
attack Sunday on the right-wing favourite, and lambasted policies
of mass immigration which he said had brought France to ruin.


Before an enthusiastic flag-waving crowd of some 5,000 at a
concert hall in southern Paris, the far-right veteran repeated
his insinuation that Nicolas Sarkozy -- a quarter-Jewish son of a
Hungarian immigrant -- was not sufficiently French to become
president.


"Mr Sarkozy, the world does not revolve around your little
person. Long before your parents came from Hungary or Greece,
there was at the heart of the French people a national current
that cared more about the interests of the country than about its
ruling class.


"You have not heard the huge anger of the French -- ruined,
pillaged, desperate -- against the political rabble of whom you
are both a leader and an emblem," he said, deliberately using the
word "racaille" made famous from Sarkozy's controversial
description of suburban delinquents.


"Sarkozy has only one nationality -- Sarkozian," he said.


Earlier this month Le Pen said the fact that Sarkozy, 52, is of
immigrant stock -- as opposed to his own native heritage -- is a
factor in the election.


In ebullient form despite his 78 years, Le Pen delivered a
patriotic harangue against the political establishment of left
and right -- accusing them of leading France into a "state of
economic and social disaster" by surrendering national
sovereignty and control over immigration.


"Every year 450,000 illegal and legal immigrants come here with
the intention of staying. Our rulers have never understood that
this is just the start of real mass immigration: if we do nothing
we will be submerged," he said to a standing ovation.


Le Pen is running in his fifth and probably last presidential
election, with polls giving him between 13 and 15 percent on
April 22 -- in fourth place behind Sarkozy, the Socialist Party's
Segolene Royal, 53, and the centrist Francois Bayrou, who is 55.


But after the 2002 shock in which Le Pen broke through to the
second round by beating the Socialist Lionel Jospin, few are
willing to write him out of the picture -- especially as French
polls are notorious for underestimating his support.


The far-right leader drew tumultuous applause when he told the
crowd: "Perhaps there's going to be another one -- or even two --
big surprises on April 22."


Many of those who attended the Paris rally -- one of only two in
the last week of campaigning -- said they are considering voting
for Le Pen out of hostility to Sarkozy.


"I am a native Frenchman and I believe in the values that have
been handed down to me. To me it is sad to see Sarkozy sell his
soul to ultra-liberal values and open the doors wide to
immigration," said Jean-Yves, a 23-year-old property agent.


"I cannot vote Segolene because the Socialist programme is a
return to the stone-age, I cannot vote Sarkozy because of his
impulsive personality, and I cannot vote Bayrou because he is Mr
Immobile. So who is there left?" said Thomas, 28, an investment
banker.


"Le Pen is the only candidate who goes to the heart of our
country's problems -- immigration and the dilution of national
identity," said Pierre Maurice, 27, a special events organiser
from the high-immigration Seine-Saint-Denis department of
northern Paris.


"Here the poor white guy is constantly lowering his eyes at the
immigrant violence. My own office was attacked by a gang of 20
Africans. And have you ever noticed that all the tramps in Paris
are white guys -- while the hand-outs go to the newcomers," he
said.


An accomplished orator who relishes the French language, Le Pen
had the audience alternately laughing, booing and listening in
rapt attention to his semi- mystical evocation of French
nationhood -- closing the speech with a quotation from 15th-
century poet Charles d'Orleans.


To outbursts of applause, he promised to reestablish border
controls, introduce zero immigration, implement "national
preference" in the delivery of jobs, housing and social security,
and toughen the criteria for acquiring French nationality.


He also promised "absolute judicial severity against the wave of
delinquency", financial aid to mothers to encourage childbirth,
an end to the 35-hour week, cuts in labour charges, increases in
farm subsidies, and proportional representation in all elections.

