

Michael Ballack ensured Chelsea kept their date with Manchester
United for the first FA Cup final at the new Wembley on a
heartbreaking afternoon for Blackburn at Old Trafford on Sunday.


The Germany captain's strike, four minutes into the second period
of extra-time, was enough to give his side a 2-1 win and keep
alive their dream of a clean sweep of all four tournaments they
have entered this season.


But it was a close-run thing for Jose Mourinho's men, who almost
paid a heavy price for their failure to make more of early
dominance and had reason to be grateful for a man-of-the-match
performance by goalkeeper Peter Cech.


After Jason Roberts had cancelled out Frank Lampard's opener,
Blackburn might easily have claimed victory in the closing stages
of regulation time, when their Norwegian winger Morten Gamst
Pedersen directed a free header wide from barely six yards out.


Instead, it fell to Germany's captain to settle the contest,
sweeping the ball home from 12 yards after Stephen Warnock had
blocked Saloman Kalou's attempt to get on the end of Shaun
Wright-Phillips's cutback from the byline.


Mourinho was relieved to have seen off Blackburn's spirited
challenge and he said: "It is a very special feeling because the
game was amazing. It was the kind of game when you win you are
crazy with happiness, but you have a lot of feelings for the
other team.


"They fought like heroes like we did. Normally heroes are only
the winners, but I have good feelings for them because they were
amazing."


Mourinho insisted the prospect of facing United in showdowns for
the Premiership and now the FA Cup underlined how good both teams
have been this season.


"It is a big, big final. It is a final between first and second
in the Premiership, it is final between two semi-finalists in the
Champions League.


"Independent of what happens for the rest of the season, we could
win everything, they could win everything or even if we both win
nothing, Chelsea and Manchester United are two unbelievable
teams."


Cech added: "We never give up. We always believe we can make it
in the last seconds and we did the same today.


"Blackburn had to come with everything to try to score. They made
a great effort in the second half and deserved to equalise. But
we showed our character becase we never gave up when it was 1-1."


Hughes's decision to opt for Roberts in attack at the expense of
the more lightweight Matt Derbyshire suggested a belief that
Chelsea could be bludgeoned into conceding chances.


Instead it was Chelsea's superior cutting edge which provided the
dominant theme for most of the first half.


The first clear sight of goal fell to Ashley Cole, who forced a
good save from Brad Friedel after combining with Joe Cole, who
was making his first start since November.


By that stage, a Chelsea opener was beginning to look inevitable.
But it still required errors from both Blackburn centrebacks to
allow them to take the lead with just over quarter of an hour
played.


First Christopher Samba allowed Drogba the time to bring Peter
Cech's goal-kick under control and lay the ball off to Ballack.


Then, when the Germany captain rolled a pass through the inside
right channel, Ryan Nelsen's ill-judged lunge at the ball allowed
Lampard to nick the ball past him before sweeping a low shot
beyond Friedel's right hand and into the bottom corner of the
net.


Joe Cole went close to adding a second soon afterwards when he
smoothly gathered Drogba's chested lay-off on the edge of the
area and unleashed a fierce half- volley that flew fractionally
over the target.


Blackburn finally came to life in the final minutes of the
opening period.


Ricardo Carvalho did well to snuff out the danger when Benni
McCarthy chested a David Bentley cross down just beyond the back
post.


It then required a fine save from Cech, diving to his left, to
keep out a drive from Dunn that would have been just reward for
the midfielder's efforts to galvanise his team-mates.


Samba got his head to the resulting corner from Morten Gamst
Pedersen but was unable to direct his effort below the bar.


That flurry hinted at the sustained fightback that was to
materialise after Andrei Shevchenko had comically squandered a
glorious opportunity to double Chelsea's lead barely a minute
after the restart.


Another fine Ballack pass released Drogba on the right and when
the Ivory Coast striker squared the ball towards the unmarked
Ukrainian close to the penalty spot, a second goal appeared a
formality.


Instead, Shevchenko contrived to fluff his right foot shot so
badly that the ball cannoned into his standing leg.


Blackburn immediately set about exploiting that let-off. Roberts
forced Cech into another good save at his near post and Pedersen
saw a header from a Bentley cross come back off the post before
they deservedly got back on level terms after winning a freekick
on the right of the Chelsea area.


Pedersen's delivery was driven low towards the centre of the goal
and Roberts managed to get in front of his marker John Terry and
get enough of a contact on the ball to deflect it wide of Cech's
left-hand.


With the game opening up, there were half chances at either end
but it was Blackburn who went closest to settling the contest in
their favour inside the 90 minutes.


After Pedersen had directed another superb Bentley cross wide
with seven minutes left, Chelsea had another narrow escape only
90 seconds from the end of regulation time, when Cech clawed the
ball to safety after substitute John Obi Mikel's back header had
sent a long throw-in spinning towards the top corner of his own
goal.

