

British Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed Sunday he would lay down
the final stages of his domestic reform agenda to cement his
legacy in his remaining weeks in office.


Reflecting on his 10 years in power, Blair insisted his
government's programme would stand the test of time and said he
wanted his record to be judged on a long-term basis.


The prime minister, who has said he will quit by September at the
latest, refused to discuss precisely when he might step down,
with his finance minister Gordon Brown the overwhelming favourite
to take over.


Brown met with American President George W. Bush for the first
time in Washington Friday, with the pair discussing the two
countries' involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as trade
issues, in a 45-minute talk.


Denying that he was simply marking time before leaving, Blair
vowed he would finish off some final changes to the state health
service, the education system and law and order policies before
his departure.


"We will over the next few weeks be putting in place the main,
final building blocks of the reform programme," he told BBC
television.


"Will our changes stand the test of time? The answer is they
will.


"They have worked to a huge extent.


"We've done an awful lot over the last 10 years but the changes
that we have been making over the past few years, when we put in
place these elements over the next few weeks, you will then have
a situation where for the future, Britain's 21st century public
services and welfare are in a completely different state.


"There are decisions that have been taken in these last couple of
years and are being taken even over the next few weeks, that will
secure the long-term changes for the future.


"It's to do with doing what's right."


Blair is expected by many political commentators to step down as
leader of the governing Labour Party following elections for the
Scottish and Welsh assemblies and local councils in England next
month, where his party is expected to do poorly.


Listing his achievements, Blair said that if offered them in 1997
when he came to power, "I think I would have been saying OK, I'll
take that."


However, he added: "I don't think you ever achieve as much as you
hope you would."


On international affairs, Blair insisted that British military
intervention in other countries -- which has left many
unconvinced at home -- was the right thing to do.


"In Iraq, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Sierra Leone, we've had a hugely
interventionist foreign policy," he said.


"But I believe it's justified and right.


"They are fighting the same forces of terrorism and extremism
that are operating around the world today.


"And I believe in time people will realise why it is important
that we fight these people wherever they are."


Britain currently has more than 13,000 troops in Iraq and
Afghanistan combined, but is planning to withdraw some of the
soldiers in Iraq, and beef up its military presence in
Afghanistan.

