

World Bank planners debated strategies here Sunday to overcome
poverty and spur development, trying to stay focused on policy as
speculation mounted on the fate of their besieged leader Paul
Wolfowitz.


Wolfowitz, facing mounting pressure to resign, was to appear at a
news conference later Sunday closing out a three-day parley of
top finance chiefs from bank, the IMF and the Group of Seven
industrialized powers.


While the weekend has featured much talk of currency volatility,
trade liberalization, institutional reform and hedge-fund
regulation, it was the fate of Wolfowitz -- and by extension the
World Bank -- that has concentrated minds.


The 63-year-old bank chief is under fire from staffers and
advocacy groups clamoring for his resignation after revelations
he helped arrange a hefty pay hike for his partner, former World
Bank press officer Shaha Riza, when she was transferred to the US
State Department in 2005.


His future is now in the hands of the bank's 24-member executive
board and Wolfowitz, who has admitted that mistakes were made in
the promotion procedure, has pledged to abide by the panel's
decision.


But the fear now in World Bank circles is that the turmoil will
undermine the institution's core anti-poverty lending and
development activities.


"The controversy is distracting the World Bank from its mission,"
German Development Minister Heidemarie Wieczorek-Zeul told
reporters.


British International Development Secretary Hilary Benn said
"this whole business has damaged the bank and should not have
happened."


US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, addressing the World Bank's
policy-setting Development Committee on Sunday, argued that
success in the fight against grinding poverty "will require that
we remain focused in our purpose and efficient in our methods."


One initiative in particular under threat from the Wolfowitz
affair is a campaign, actively backed by the bank head himself,
to stamp out corruption in countries receiving World Bank loans.


But the program had drawn sharp criticism even before the
allegations of favoritism emerged and the campaign has had to be
repeatedly watered down in the face of virulent opposition.


At a September meeting of the bank and IMF in Singapore major
European powers such as Britain lined up with developing nations
to assail Wolfowitz's strategy as misguided.


In going after graft, the World Bank risked jeopardizing its
development work among some of the planet's most needy people,
they argued.


While the bank executive board has backed the scheme, criticism
has not gone away, as was apparent in remarks from some
Development Committee members on Sunday.


"The bank must stick must unswervingly conform to its articles of
agreement and mandate, stick to development as the bank's core
mission, abide by the principle of non-politicization (and)
respect country ownership and leadership of its members,"
insisted Chinese Vice Minister of Finance Li Yong.


Clearer support came from Spanish Finance Minister Pedro Solbes
Mira who said that "strengthening good governance and fighting
corruption is necessary to reduce poverty."


Canadian Finance Minister James Flaherty contended that the
bank's credibilty could be enhanced if greater attention were
paid to the voices of developing countries.


Flaherty in particular cited the procedure under which the
president of the bank is chosen, with the post traditionally
reserved for a US citizen.


"The discussion in the bank should include consideration of how
to improve transparency and accountability in selecting the
president," he said.

