

Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem al-Thani urged
Israel to respond to Arab gestures for peace in order to avoid a
"catastrophe," the state news agency QNA reported on Sunday.


"The chance for peace is possible now that Arabs are extending a
hand for it," Sheikh Hamad said, referring to a five-year-old
peace initiative revived at an Arab summit in Riyadh last month.


The initiative calls for peace with Israel in return for its
withdrawal from Arab land occupied in 1967, allowing the creation
of an Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian refugees.


"The Israelis should realise that antagonising the Arabs and
delaying the delivery of their rights is not in their interest,
and that it could bring a catastrophe on to Israel," he said in a
televised debate reported by QNA.


"It is possible that they might face in the future an Arab
generation that rejects peace with them," he added.


Like most Arab countries, Qatar does not have diplomatic
relations with Israel, but the Jewish state has a commercial
interests office manned by two diplomats in Doha.


Representatives of the two countries also meet on a regular
basis.


But Sheikh Hamad downplayed the economic importance of Israel's
commercial office, saying that trade between the gas-rich state
and Israel did not exceed 200,000 dollars a year.


Sheikh Hamad, who also holds the foreign affairs portfolio, was
appointed prime minister earlier this month.


In the same television debate, Qatar's premier said the Gulf
state will never take part in any attack on neighbouring Iran,
amid heightening tension between the West and Tehran over its
nuclear programme.


"Iran is a friend. Qatar will never be a launch pad for any harm
against Iran, either directly or indirectly," he said.


Qatar, a close ally of Washington, hosts two US military bases --
As-Sayliyah, which served as the coalition command and control
centre during the 2003 Iraq war, and Al-Udeid airbase, which was
used by the US Air Force during the 2001 war on Afghanistan and
in the aftermath of the Iraq war.


"There is a military agreement between Qatar and the United
States which sets the rules for the use of military facilities in
Qatar," he said.


"This matter has been studied by the Qatari government and a
clear position has been announced. Qatar will never participate
in any attack on Iran," he added.


Western countries want Iran to suspend uranium enrichment, a
process used in the manufacture of nuclear fuel, over fears it
could be diverted to make nuclear weapons. Iran insists it only
wants to produce energy for peaceful purposes.

