

If Barcelona notch up their third successive La Liga title in
June, their coach Frank Rijkaard may consider that the crucial
match of the season was their 1-0 win over Real Mallorca on
Sunday.


Barca have often looked a shadow of the side that conquered
Europe last season but luck came their way on Sunday and, with
losses this weekend by their two nearest rivals Sevilla and Real
Madrid, they now have a four point lead.


"We have got three very, very important points. It was a
difficult game against a very well organised Mallorca team that
we knew had got good results away from home," acknowledged
Rijkaard.


"I don't think you can compare this game with the one we lost
against Zaragoza. Morally this victory belonged to Barcelona and
that's a very important point," added the Dutchman, remembering
the way that Barca were outplayed a week ago in a 1-0 win by an
inspired Real Zaragoza.


This season, despite having all the same key players who did the
Spanish and continental double last May, Barca have rarely found
the flair they exhibited last season.


However, Rijkaard believes that Barca are not getting the credit
for their effort this season, even if things haven't always gone
to plan and despite their failure to make a decent defence of
their Champions League crown.


"We didn't play fluid football (against Mallorca) but if we
hadn't have worked hard we would not have won. I think our
attitude was right on the pitch and we fought until the very last
minute and that made the difference.


"We tried hard throughout the whole game but sometimes the ball
wouldn't run for us. The team in general played attacking
football, we had the ball but little space," reflected Rijkaard.


Rijkaard made two key changes after 60 minutes, bringing on
Spanish international playmaker Xavi Hernandez and Argentine
striker Javier Saviola.


It was Saviola's shot against the post that ricochetted against
the luckless Fernando Navarro and bounced into the net off the
former Barcelona player's legs.


"The reserves that we had on the bench turned this game around.
Saviola is a player who's born to score. The goal is his goal. He
hit the post but we had a lot of luck with the ball going in the
net," admitted Rijkaard.


Barcelona have 59 points from 30 games, and only eight matches
remaining.


They can consolidate their lead with a good result at Villarreal
next Sunday.


Nevertheless, the victory over Mallorca and holding onto pole
position is unlikely to silence Rijkaard's critics, many of whom
are predicting he might be leaving the Nou Camp in the summer.

