

Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero told AFP
Sunday he backed French presidential candidate Segolene Royal and
underlined the polls' importance for plans to revamp the European
Union.


"As is natural, I feel a great political empathy with the
socialist candidate," Zapatero, who leads his country's socialist
party, said in written answers to questions on the French
campaign.


"I like her programme and I think her predisposition to listen is
exemplary," he said.


"In addition, it seems decisive that a woman is for the first
time in a position to reach the French presidency," added
Zapatero, who has made gender equality a hallmark of his liberal-
minded government that took power in 2004.


"It supposes a very important step ahead to improve the condition
of women in the entire world and it would contribute to an image
of renovation which could be very important for France and for
all of Europe," he said.


The Spanish prime minister said Europe would be keenly following
the French elections as their outcome would have a great impact
on the European Union's attempts to revive a constitution
project.


"Europe needs France to continue advancing with its project and
it is logical that there exist great expectations in the entire
European Union over these elections, which come at an especially
relevant moment for the European project," he said.


The first round of voting in the French polls will be held on
April 22 with the all-important two-way run-off on May 6.


The French election comes as the 27-nation EU is trying to revive
stalled talks over a proposed constitution which would reshape
how the bloc works.


French and Dutch voters rejected a draft EU constitution in
referendums in 2005, pitching the bloc into crisis.


Zapatero will personally lend his support to Royal when he
attends a meeting by the candidate in the southwestern French
city of Toulouse scheduled for Thursday, just three days before
the first round of voting in the French polls.


Right-wing former interior minister Nicolas Sarkozy is leading in
the opinion polls over Royal but is still far from certain of
ultimate victory in the all- important May 6 run-off.


While Royal is most likely to make it through to the run-off, she
is only a few points ahead of centrist Francois Bayrou, whose
strong position in the race has been the campaign's big surprise.

