

Afghan security forces backed by international troops killed 16
militants while a suicide attacker killed four Afghan employees
of a US-owned private security firm, officials said Sunday.


The Afghan defence ministry said 10 rebels were killed in
fighting in the Barmal district of eastern Paktika province
bordering Pakistan early Sunday when Afghan security forces and
NATO-led troops raided a rebel hideout.


"Ten enemy fighters were killed and 15 others were injured in an
operation in Barmal district this morning," the ministry said in
a statement. One militant was captured and some weapons were
seized, it added.


Governor for Paktika, Mohammad Akram Ikhpolwak, earlier said the
dead included an Al-Qaeda-linked Arab fighter. The troops also
captured a Pakistani national he said, but gave no details.


The US-led military in a statement said coalition forces detained
one extremist and discovered material for making explosive
devices in a compound in Paktika province early Sunday.


"The compound consisted of multiple safe houses that use natural
terrain to facilitate the movement of fighters from Pakistan,"
the statement added.


"Credible intelligence led coalition forces to the compound," it
said, adding that no shots were fired and no one was injured.


In a further incident, Afghan and US-led troops killed six
Taliban fighters in Sangin district in southern Helmand province
on Saturday. The US military said some 1,000 international and
Afghan troops took control of Sangin about two weeks ago.


The fighting in Sangin began when rebels using mortars and
machine guns attacked the combined force, the US military said in
a statement.


"Six Taliban fighters were killed, and there were no Afghan
civilian injuries reported," it said.


In the suicide attack the bomber, carrying explosives on a
motorbike, targeted a US Protection and Investigations (USPI)
vehicle just a few hundred metres (yards) from Kandahar airfield,
a base for the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force.


"There was a suicide attack against a vehicle of the USPI. Three
guards and a driver were killed and another guard was injured," a
police officer at a nearby checkpost told AFP.


The bombing in the volatile southern city of Kandahar was the
second suicide attack in the country in as many days after eight
people, mostly police, were killed in a blast in the eastern city
of Khost Saturday.


Separately, an explosion caused by a landmine in a garbage dump
rocked the capital, Kabul, but caused no casualties, police and
witnesses said.


The Taliban, ousted from power by a US-led military offensive at
the end of 2001, are waging a guerrilla-like insurgency, mainly
in southern and eastern Afghanistan, which has claimed thousands
of lives, including civilians.


Militants from the ousted Taliban regime have threatened a wave
of suicide bombings this year as the rebels step up their
campaign against the US-backed government of President Hamid
Karzai.

