

A retired chess champion, a radical novelist, and an unpopular
ex-premier -- the leaders of The Other Russia coalition that held
protests in Moscow and Saint Petersburg this weekend hardly
resemble a threat to the Kremlin.


But after the violent dispersal of both demonstrations, the
awkward squad of Russian politics reckons President Vladimir
Putin is losing his famously strong grip.


"The authorities are nervous. They are in a state of near panic,"
chess legend Garry Kasparov, one of the leaders of The Other
Russia, told Echo of Moscow radio Sunday.


The bravado is typical of The Other Russia, a bizarre mix of
allies ranging from hard leftists to pro-Western liberals.


All that unites them is determination to stop what they say is
Putin's plan to rig the March 2008 presidential election in
favour of a chosen successor.


But they have limited resources, virtually no access to state-
controlled television, and since forming last year have never
attracted more than 5,000 supporters to rallies.


"The movement represents a thin layer of society -- the
intellectuals, the liberal elite. It's not much," independent
journalist and commentator Sergei Parkhomenko told AFP.


This weekend, riot police and interior ministry troops turned out
in huge numbers to show the approximately 2,000 demonstrators in
both Moscow and Saint Petersburg who was boss.


Kasparov was among hundreds detained. Another was Eduard Limonov,
a dapper novelist who heads the radical leftist National
Bolsheviks movement and is also at the centre of The Other
Russia.


The third main leader, Western-friendly ex-prime minister Mikhail
Kasyanov, avoided arrest but was bundled from a Moscow square by
burly riot police.


None of these three disparate figures is likely to mount a
successful challenge for the presidency in person.


Kasparov is part Jewish, a fact that rules him out for Russia's
many nationalists.


Limonov is widely considered an eccentric and Kasyanov is plain
unpopular. During his term as prime minister in 2000-2004 he
earned the nickname "Misha two percent" over unproven rumours of
corruption and kickbacks.


But what this unlikely grouping has achieved is to shake up the
often stultifying atmosphere of Russian politics.


Criticism of Putin or his immediate entourage is never aired on
television or in the tame parliament.


When Limonov told the crowd in Saint Petersburg "we demand free
presidential elections without successors", he was breaking a
taboo.


Putin has overseen huge economic growth, largely thanks to the
flood of petrodollars into state coffers, and many ordinary
Russians have enjoyed a rapid improvement in living standards.
Polls regularly find huge approval ratings for Putin.


The beleagured opposition says that popularity is mostly because
of state media manipulation and the rising power of the security
forces.


The only way to short circuit the Kremlin's power, according to
Kasparov, the great chess strategist, is on the streets.


But following the hammering dealt by riot police over the
weekend, the intense mastermind of The Other Russia is aware of
the challenge.


"Street protests are the only constitutional method today to
pressure the authorities," he said Sunday.


"Another matter is thinking up more effective forms for such
protests and finding ways that would get more people into the
process."

