

The father of a Malawian boy adopted last year by US pop diva
Madonna said Sunday he was eager to "see, touch and hug my son
David", as news reached him that she was expected to visit the
country.


"I will be very happy to meet my son after eight months as well
as Madonna because we only met once with her in court during the
adoption process," Yohane Banda, 32, told AFP.


Although there has been official confirmation, Madonna is
expected to arrive in Malawi on Monday. Earlier reports had
suggested she might reach the poor southern African nation on
Sunday.


It will be her second visit to continue her charitable work with
the Raising Malawi Organisation.


Speaking by cellphone, Banda said he knew nothing about the
intended visit of the singer and a possible re-union with David
except what journalists had told him.


"Nobody has told me Madonna is coming," said Banda, who hails
from Lipunga village, a rural dusty and poor outpost 50
kilometres from the Home of Hope orphanage in Mchinji district.


"I am hearing it for the second time from people like you
journalists," he added.


"I don't have any programme about her visit. No government
official nor the orphanage has come to see me, but I would still
be the most happiest person to see David and Madonna," he said.


David's reunion with his biological father is expected to take
place at the Home of Hope in Mchinji, 110 kilometres from the
capital Lilongwe.


It was there that Madonna chose the then 13-month-old boy among
500 children for a controversial adoption that sparked a heated
debate.


The poor and illiterate farmer brought his son to the centre last
year after David's mother died shortly after birth.


Madonna was last year granted an 18-month interim order by the
high court allowing her to take David out of Malawi.


The ruling sparked a heated debate about adoption laws in a
country where the number of orphans is surging as a result of
AIDS.


The singer has denied using her vast wealth to fast-track the
process of adopting David. Yohane has said he let his son be
adopted to escape the poverty of the southern African nation.


The singer is expected to continue her charity work of
constructing several orphanages. Her spokeswoman denied reports
that she was going to adopt another Malawian child.

