

Newcastle chairman Freddy Shepherd has warned the English
Football Association that he is ready to go to court to stop
Michael Owen playing for England.


Owen, 27, is ready to return to action for Newcastle against
Chelsea next week after 10 months out with a knee injury suffered
while playing for England at the World Cup.


If the former Liverpool striker proves his fitness he is likely
to be called up by England coach Steve McClaren for the Euro 2008
qualifier against Estonia in June.


But Shepherd is engaged in a fierce battle with the FA over their
failure to pay adequate compensation to Newcastle for the loss of
Owen's services.


Although the FA have made a payment towards Owen's 100,000 pounds
a week wages, Shepherd believes that is not enough and he is
furious at the prospect of Owen going straight back on
international duty while the dispute is still unresolved.


"If the FA don't offer us a fair settlement, we are prepared to
go to court to get an injunction that could stop Michael playing
for England against Estonia," Shepherd told the Sunday Mirror.


"We would do that very reluctantly, but the FA's stance is
unfortunately leaving us with no other option. We will be seeking
a reimbursement of his medical costs, and if there is no offer
from the FA we will have no choice but to involve our lawyers.


"We have not been paid a penny by the FA for Owen's recuperation
bill. They have not paid the price of even an aspirin for Michael
since he left their care. They cut him loose as soon as he was
put on the plane home.


"The only thing that concerns them is when he could play for
England again.


"The FA are abusing a dominant position. They are taking our
prize asset for nothing and then returning him as damaged goods.


"They then have the cheek to ask him to return as soon as
possible to get them out of another mess.


"The FA are forcing to go to court. Our lawyers believe there is
a very good chance we can win this case. The FA may treat others
with contempt but they are not going to do it with Newcastle
United."


An FA spokesman said: "It is inappropriate to comment on this
matter at this time."

