

German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday said the European Union
could open two more chapters of membership talks with Turkey by
July, but warned that the country must open its ports to Cyprus.


"Under the German presidency of the EU, two more chapters could
probably be opened if things go well," she said at a joint press
conference here with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.


"We are looking ahead but the outcome of this process remains
open," she said, adding that it is "important that Turkey
normalises ties with Cyprus".


Erdogan struck a conciliatory note after having reproached
Germany in the press for failing to do enough to advance Turkey's
troubled bid to join the EU on the eve of his meeting here with
Merkel.


"One cannot attack a lady. We are on a long, narrow road and we
have to be patient."


Erdogan added however that he felt the criticism he had voiced in
an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel was
"legitimate".


The magazine quoted him as saying: "Seriously, I expected more
from Germany. We would like a clear idea of a date, a roadmap, a
calendar for negotiations."


The European Union relaunched membership talks with Turkey at the
end of March after a long hiatus caused by Ankara's refusal to
respect its trade obligations to Cyprus under a customs agreement
with the EU.


Turkey refuses to open its ports and airports to Greek Cypriot
traffic until the EU lives up to its pledge to end the isolation
of the Turkish Cypriot statelet in the north of the Mediterranean
island, which is recognised only by Ankara.


Merkel's conservative Christian Democrats oppose Turkish
membership of the EU and would prefer instead that the secular
Islamic nation become a "privileged partner" of the 27-member
bloc.


But she has agreed to support the EU's ongoing accession
negotiations with Ankara as part of her government's coalition
agreement with the center-left Social Democrats.


Merkel and Erdogan met before opening the Hanover Trade Fair
where Turkey is this year's guest nation.

