

Stuart O'Grady became the first Australian to win the Paris-
Roubaix cycling classic here on Sunday.


The 33-year-old came home alone ahead of Juan Antonio Flecha of
Spain and former winner and Swiss rider Steffen Wesemann was
third in the race known as the 'Hell of the North'and which is
the seventh race on the 28-race Pro Tour series.


At the finish line in the Roubaix velodrome, O'Grady crossed the
finish line after six hours of racing over the tough 259km
course, nearly 53km of which is cobblstones.


Switzerland's defending champon Fabian Cancellara dropped out of
contention late in the race, while Italian Alessandro Ballan -
the Tour of Flanders winner last week - also failed to keep the
pace in the decisive latter stages.


The finale of the race was brought to life by O'Grady, who made
up for team-mate Cancellara's demise by attacking on his own in
the final 25km of the race.


With Belgium's 2005 winner Tom Boonen in hot pursuit behind
another group which included Flecha, however, the Australian had
plenty of work on his plate.


O'Grady was at the front all day, the 33-year-old forming part of
a 34-man breakaway which managed to build a near five-minute lead
on the peloton by the 119km mark.


Most of that group were caught in the latter stages as the
effects of racing at over 50km/h on the dusty cobblestoned roads
in sun-drenched temperatures took its toll.


Boonen played a decisive role before the halfway mark, the Quick
Step leader upping the pace near the end of the 2.4km long
Arenberg forest to cause a split in the chasing group.


That split was aided by a succession of crashes in the Arenberg,
one of the most treacherous of the race's 28 cobblestone
sections.


Boonen was being closely kept in check by defending champion
Fabian Cancellara, Leif Hoste of Predictor and Lampre rider
Ballan.


Boonen then reacted immediately to an acceleration by CSC rider
Lars Michaelsen during the 12th from last cobblestone section at
Orchies, the newest on the 111 -year-old race.


The 27-year-old Belgian star then struggled to keep pace as Dane
Lars Michaelsen and O'Grady, Flecha and Bjorn Leukemans continued
their chase of two riders who had earlier gone off at the front.


With 30km to race German David Kopp and Belgian Kevin Van Impe
led with a 25-sec advantage on O'Grady's group, with Boonen's
group at just a minute behind.


Boonen's chances of making the podium increased when he followed
a brief attack by Wesemman, the Swiss rider's turn of pace
leaving Cancellara trailing.


The Belgian forced the pace again when he attacked just before
the sixth from last cobblestone sector at Cysoing, taking a quick
glance behind him at compatriot and rival Hoste before pulling
away.


At the front, Van Impe - Boonen's team-mate - and Kopp were
caught by Flecha's group, and immediately O'Grady went on a solo
attack at the front.


The Australian quickly increased a 25-sec lead to a minute, and
with just over 15km to race Flecha began pushing harder at the
front of his group in a bid to close the gap.

