

Bangladesh captain Habibul Bashar admitted his side deserved to
be beaten by Ireland in their World Cup Super Eights match at
Kensington Oval here on Sunday.


The 74-run defeat sent Bangladesh to the foot of the table with
just one match left against West Indies here on Thursday.


"We were very ordinary today and we deserved to be beaten," said
Bashar.


It was another frustating display by the Asian side who have
beaten India and South Africa at the World Cup but were
completely outplayed by Ireland.


"Ireland batted very well. When we batted we lost too many early
wickets. It's been a problem. We need to bat 50 overs if we are
to have a chance of winning," added Bashar.


Bangladesh, chasing 244 to win, were bundled out for 169 in 41.2
overs by an Irish side enjoying their first ever World Cup which
was highlighted by their famous win over Pakistan in the opening
stages.


"We knew we had to get all three disciplines right today and we
played the perfect game," said Ireland skipper Trent Johnston
whose team had been crushed by nine wickets by world champions
Australia in their last game.


"We were always going to bat first and the challenge was for the
openers to get through the new ball.


"All credit to William Porterfield (85) and Jeremy Bray (31) who
got through the first 15 overs.


"We didn't want to bat second against their spinners trying to
chase a 220-230 total. We chose to bat first, put up a
challenging total and then wanted to squeeze them."


Johnston also praised the fans who have followed the team around
the Caribbean over the last five weeks.


"They have spent a lot of money coming over here and we wanted to
give them a good display," he said.


Ireland's last match will be against Sri Lanka, who have already
made sure of their place in the semi-finals, in Grenada on
Wednesday.


It will be coach Adrian Birrell's last match in charge before he
hands over the reins to West Indian Phil Simmons.


"We want to give Adrian a great send-off and hopefully we can put
in another display like today," said the captain.

