

Vice President Dick Cheney said on Sunday the United States can
win in Iraq and accused Democrats pushing for a US troop
withdrawal of being "irresponsible."


In an interview on US television, Cheney said he believed US
forces in Iraq were making progress despite continuing violence
and it was vital to support the establishment of a democratic
government that could "defend itself."


"I do believe we can win in Iraq. I think it is a worthy cause. I
think it's absolutely essential that we prevail," Cheney told
CBS's "Face the Nation."


"I don't want to underestimate the difficulty of the task," said
Cheney. "But just because it's hard doesn't mean we shouldn't do
it.


Cheney spoke as more deadly bombing attacks were reported in
Iraq, killing 43 people in Shiite shopping areas of Baghdad.


Asked about opinion polls showing a majority of Americans support
a withdrawal of US troops, Cheney said: "Well, you also get a
majority who, I think, would prefer to have us win."


Cheney repeated criticism of Democratic leaders in Congress for
tying funding for the war to a timetable for the withdrawal of US
troops.


"I do believe that the positions that the Democratic leaders have
taken ... are irresponsible," the vice president said.


He demanded the Democrats support an emergency funding request
without conditions and reiterated threats that President George
W. Bush would veto any bill with a deadline for a US pullout.


"There's a fundamental debate going on here, in terms of whether
or not our objective in Iraq is to, quote, 'withdraw,' or whether
our objective in Iraq is to complete the mission," Cheney said.


"And I think a majority of Americans would prefer the latter, if
we can get it done."


But Democratic Senator Carl Levin said Cheney's words carried no
weight given his previous predictions on Iraq.


"He has no credibility. He's been wrong consistently on Iraq. He
has misled the people consistently on Iraq. He has misstated. He
has exaggerated," Levin told Fox News on Sunday.


"And I don't think he has any credibility left with the American
people."


Levin said that while the Democrats wanted to send a message on
troop withdrawal they would not withhold funding for US troops
deployed in Iraq.


Cheney also said he expected the Democratic majority would in the
end support the funding request without any timetable.


"I don't think that a majority of the Democrats in the Congress
want to leave America's fighting forces in harm's way without the
resources they need to defend themselves," he said.


Cheney, echoing earlier statements from the White House, said it
was crucial that the president's emergency funding request be
approved quickly or else risk inflicting damage on the US
military's "training and readiness."


"What happens is you have to pull money out of other accounts in
order to fund the forces in combat," he said.


Cheney was asked by CBS about comments attributed to former
president Gerald Ford that he had become more pugnacious in
recent years and was obsessed with the threat of terrorism.


Cheney said he had not changed since he served under Ford in the
1970s but that the September 11, 2001 attacks against the United
States had a profound effect on the US outlook and the
government's responsibilities.


The September 11 attacks "did have, I think, a remarkable impact
on the threat to the United States, on what we're required to
deal with as an administration," he said.


"The fact is that the threat to the United States, now, of 9/11
occurring, with a group of terrorists armed not with airline
tickets and box cutters but with a nuclear weapon in the middle
of one of our own cities, is the greatest threat we face," he
added.

