

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Erdogan was under mounting pressure
to abandon possible plans to run for the presidency on Sunday,
one day before the electoral process officially begins.


An estimated 500,000 people from across Turkey gathered in a
secularist mass rally here Saturday against any aspirations the
conservative, Islamist-rooted Erdogan may have for the country's
top job.


The demonstration came hot on the heels of a polite reminder
Thursday by General Yasar Buyukanit, head of the powerful Turkish
army, which is seen by many as the main defender of republican
Turkey's strong secular tradition.


Buyukanit said the president must have secular values "not only
in words, but in essence" - a barely veiled echo of a widespread
view among Erdogan's detractors that his proclaimed rejection of
his Islamist political past hides a secret political agenda to
increase the role of religion in Turkey.


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had much stronger words the
next day when he warned that the republic "is under unprecedented
threat" from Islamists.


Erdogan has yet to say whether he will run or not and has hinted
that he could wait until the end of the 10-day period, from
Monday to midnight on April 25, during which candidacies are
accepted, before making an announcement.


Parliament elects the president for a single seven-year term, and
Erdogan's governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) holds a
comfortable majority of 353 of the single chamber's 550 seats.


This means that if he wants the job, Erdogan will get it,
probably not in the first two rounds of voting when a two-thirds
majority of 376 is required, but in the third, when a simple
majority of 276 votes suffices.


But newspapers on Sunday wrote that the AKP grassroots - unlike
party lawmakers, who nearly all say they favour an Erdogan
presidency - want their charismatic and energetic leader to
remain prime minister and lead the party to general elections
scheduled for November.


Saturday's march could also be a harbinger of the troubles
Erdogan is likely to face in the largely ceremonial but highly
symbolic post of president, seen as a bastion of the secular
system established by the republic's founder and first head of
state, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.


"Erdogan may be thinking that even if he does go to Cankaya (the
presidential palace), he will not be very comfortable there,"
wrote columnist Murat Yetkin in the liberal Radikal, citing
likely problems with such secular establishment stalwarts as the
army, the judiciary and the bureaucracy.


But the mass rally, which the left-wing, secularist Cumhuriyet
hailed in a front-page banner Sunday as "The Awakening of the
Nation", could have a totally opposite effect, warned Enis
Berberoglu in the mass circulation Hurriyet.


"It is not easy for Erdogan to renounce (the presidency) after
Tandogan (the Ankara square where the demonstration was held),"
he wrote, "because renouncing Cankaya will be perceived as
political surrender."


Erdogan remained mum on his presidential intentions.


His only reaction to the upsurge of popular opposition to his
presidency was a cool comment made before flying to Hanover,
Germany, late Saturday.


He expressed satisfaction that the rally went off peacefully and
said he was "particularly pleased to see a democratic right
enjoyed in such a manner".

