

US presidential hopeful John McCain revealed that his fundraising
is lagging far behind his Republican rivals, as final first-
quarter results began to trickle out Sunday in the all-important
race for campaign donations.


Disclosure reports on candidate campaign finances were due to be
filed up until midnight on Sunday.


Fundraising prowess is considered a critical measure of the
vitality of each of the White House campaigns, and more so than
ever with the cost of mounting a presidential challenge spiraling
higher with each successive election season.


The 2008 election is tipped to be the most expensive ever at some
one billion dollars for the presidential race alone, with
billions more spent on congressional, state and local races.


McCain -- formerly a Republican frontrunner -- had 5.2 million
dollars available by the end of March, less than half the amount
of his main Republican rivals, the senator's campaign disclosed
late Saturday.


His support is said to have fallen in part because of his staunch
support for President George W. Bush's unpopular military
strategy in Iraq -- even in the face of growing public unease
with the US military presence there.


Rival Republican candidate Rudy Giuliani -- former mayor of New
York City -- reported a campaign war chest of 10.8 million and
Mitt Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, had 11.9 million,
according campaign disclosure reports, which showed he garnered
some 20.7 million dollars in contributions.


The financial figures represented more bad news for McCain who
was initially considered the Republican party favorite but has
been trailing in opinion polls, even as his expensive campaign
operation burns through cash and has some 1.8 million dollars in
unpaid bills.


By contrast, Giuliani reported only 89,000 dollars in debts and
Romney's only debt was a 2.35 million dollar loan he made to his
campaign from personal funds.


McCain raised some 13 million dollars during the period -- nearly
as much as Giuliani -- but dipped deeper into his campaign's
coffers, spending some 8.4 million dollars.


Giuliani's campaign is based largely on his leadership after the
September 11, 2001 terror attacks, a role which earned him hero
status in New York City and across the country.


Earlier this month, McCain announced a shakeup of his fundraising
operation, and he cut back his campaign staff to control runaway
expenses.


McCain, who has trailed Giuliani in the polls, recently warned
his supporters that fundraising will fall short of expectations
-- but has no option but to trudge the money trail.


"Our campaign is fast approaching a critical deadline," McCain
recently wrote to supporters in a plea for funds


"Unfortunately, we cannot change the fact that this is how the
press, political pundits and others will look at the financial
and political momentum behind our campaign."

