

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody has said he is "90 percent sure" fast
bowler Lasith Malinga will miss Monday's Super Eights match
against world champions Australia.


Malinga, 23, sustained left ankle ligament damage in training
that ruled him out of Thursday's six-wicket win against New
Zealand here at the Grenada National Stadium.


Sri Lanka, third in the table, have, like standings leaders
Australia and second-placed New Zealand, already qualified for
the semi-finals.


Australia and Sri Lanka look set to avoid each other in the last
four and will not meet again until possibly the April 28 final in
Barbados.


Malinga has never played a one-day international against
Australia so there is every incentive for Sri Lanka to keep him
'hidden' from Ricky Ponting's men.


"I can probably say it's 90 percent sure he won't be available
for tomorrow's match," Moody said.


"We are aware he's not quite right and we don't want to worsen
the situation. We'd rather get on top of it completely before we
let him loose again.


"He'll definitely be playing, going forward, but probably
tomorrow is a day or two too early," explained Moody, a member of
the Australia squads that won the World Cup in 1987 and 1999.


Malinga, 23, bowled off a shortened run in the nets at Grenada's
La Sagesse cricket ground for approximately 15 minutes on
Saturday, generating lively pace, before having his left ankle
heavily strapped.


Farveez Maharoof, who deputised for Malinga against New Zealand,
is likely to retain his place although Sri Lanka also have fellow
quick Nuwan Kulasekara in their squad.


Malinga, whose distinctive, slingy action makes him hard for
batsmen to face has made a huge impact on world cricket during
the past year.


At the World Cup he had topped the tournament bowling standings
with 15 wickets in six matches at an average of 14.26, including
a record four in four balls that so nearly saw the 1996 champions
to a stunning Super Eights win against South Africa in a match
the Proteas eventually won by one wicket.

