

German striker Miroslav Klose helped fire Werder Bremen back up
to second in the Bundesliga to keep the pressure on leaders
Schalke 04 with a 2-0 win at Borussia Dortmund on Sunday.


After rivals VfB Stuttgart leap-frogged into second on Saturday,
with a 2-1 win against Hanover, Bremen re-claimed their place
behind leaders Schalke 04 after Klose scored his third goal in
four days.


Having netted twice in Bremen's UEFA Cup win over AZ Alkmaar last
Thursday night to break his 907-minute goal drought, the 2006
World Cup's top-scorer opened the scoring at Dortmund as his side
keep the pressure on Schalke.


After Bremen defender Patrick Owomoyela robbed Dortmund
midfielder Florian Kringe on the half-way line and sprinted to
the edge of the penalty area, Klose was on hand to head home his
cross on 28 minutes.


And a superb curled free-kick from Brazilian Diego ten minutes
later gave Dortmund goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller no chance and
put Bremen into a 2-0 lead. The visitors could even afford to
squander several chances to score more after the break.


The defeat leaves Dortmund just one place above the relegation
zone.


After the disappointment of their Champions League exit last
Wednesday at the hands of AC Milan, Bayern Munich showed they are
still in the hunt for their 21st German title after a convincing
2-1 win against Bayer Leverkusen.


Midfield hard-man Mark van Bommel put Bayern into an early lead
after defender Philipp Lahm launched a high ball and the Dutch
midfielder beat Leverkusen goalkeeper Rene Adler to chip into the
net after 30 minutes.


And Bayern looked to have wrapped up the points three minutes
into the second- half when Hasan Salihamidzic slid a pass into
the feet of striker Roy Makaay who buried his shot past the
diving Adler to make it 2-0.


Leverkusen's Ukrainian striker Andrey Voronin, who picked up a
yellow card earlier in the game, scored to put his side back in
contention, against the run of play, on the hour mark, only for
Van Bommel to hit the post moments later.


But Bayern deserved the win while the defeat leaves Leverkusen
sixth in the league, one place away from a UEFA Cup berth.

