

AC Milan won 3-1 at Messina on Sunday to climb into fourth spot
in the Italian league to continue their late season charge
following qualification for the Champions League semi-finals.


Coach Carlo Ancelotti has said all along this season that fourth
spot, and a place in the Champions League next season, was his
team's aim after they started with an eight-point deficit for
their involvement in the match-fixing scandal.


Kaka and Giuseppe Favalli put Milan two goals ahead in the first
half hour and Ronaldo scored a third near the end though
Messina's Salvatore Masiello found the net in injury time.


AC Milan's victory comes just four days after their 2-0 victory
at Bayern Munich which put them into the Champions League semi-
finals 4-2 on aggregate.


"The team is going through a very good period," Ancelotti told
Sky Sport, adding: "The battle for fourth place will continue
right up till the last match."


Palermo drew 2-2 at Inter Milan in Sunday's late match, leaving
them in fifth spot a point below AC Milan. Inter are still
unbeaten, having won 25 of their 31 matches.


Inter had to fight back from two goals down after first half
goals by Palermo's Andrea Caracciolo and Cristian Zaccardo. Luis
Figo then set up two goals after the break to bring Inter into
the match, Argentina's Julio Cruz scoring with a header and then
Adriano finding the net.


Inter have 81 points, with Roma second on 65, and it is hardly a
crisis for Roberto Mancini's men although this is the first time
they have been held to two consecutive draws following their
goalless match against Reggina last weekend.


Lazio are third on 56, fourth-placed AC Milan have 50 points and
Palermo are on 49.


Second-placed Roma also had a big victory with Francesco Totti
scoring twice in a 4-0 thrashing of Sampdoria following their
Champions League humiliation in midweek. Totti confirmed his
place as league top scorer with 20 goals.


Roma lost 7-1 to Manchester United in their quarter-final, second
leg at Old Trafford on Tuesday.


Roma coach Luciano Spalletti told Sky Sport: "I knew there would
be a reaction because I know my players well. I work with them
and I know how seriously they prepare."


Roma's city rivals Lazio, however, could only draw 2-2 at bottom
club Ascoli to end their run of eight consecutive victories.

