

Family drama "After This Our Exile" swept the top honours at the
Hong Kong Film Awards, winning five prizes, including best film
and best director for Patrick Tam.


"Thank you for the judges' support for me.... I thank all the
actors and crew members and also God, who gave me such a great
gift," Tam told a 1,000-strong audience at the harbour-front Hong
Kong Cultural Centre.


The movie was Tam's first feature film since his "My Heart Is
That Eternal Rose" in 1989.


The art-house film about a single and abusive father who turns to
gambling won child star Gouw Ian Iskandar two gongs in the best
new performer and supporting actor categories. The movie also won
the best screenplay title.


"I didn't think I would win another prize again. I've learned a
lot from making the film. I'm very happy," the child star said.


The movie beat strong contenders in the best film category,
including world- renowned Chinese director Zhang Yimou's "Curse
of the Golden Flower" and veteran Hong Kong filmmaker Johnnie
To's gangster flick "Election 2."


To did not win a single prize despite being tipped to win one of
the major gongs. His triad movies, "Election 2" and "Exile"
received five and four nominations respectively, including for
best director and best film.


Dark horse Lau Ching-wan bagged the best actor gong for his role
in "My Name is Fame," trumping strong competition from
charismatic actor Chow Yun-fat of "Golden Flower," martial arts
master Jet Li of "Fearless" and heart-throb Tony Leung Chiu-wai
of "Confession of Pain."


"Golden Flower," the most expensive Chinese film to date, with a
budget of 45 million dollars, won four prizes in mostly minor
categories including art direction, with Chinese starlet Gong Li
being crowned the best actress.


The film, which was nominated for best costume design at this
year's Oscars, picked up the best costume and make-up design
award here. Taiwanese singer, actor and composer Jay Chou won the
best original film song gong for the movie.


The sumptuous movie tells the story of an imperial family falling
into turmoil, with the emperor (Chow) gradually poisoning the
empress (Gong) after she had an affair with her stepson.


Although Zhang lost out in the best director award, his "Riding
Alone for Thousands of Miles" picked up the best Asian film
prize.


"Fearless," starring Li, who portrayed martial arts master Huo
Yuanjia in the movie, had seven nominations but only took home
one prize, with Yuen Wo-ping beating kung fu hero Jackie Chan of
comedy "Rob B Hood" for the best action choreography.


Composer Peter Kam, who won top honours for his music in
"Isabella" at the Berlin Film Festival last year, has also been
recognised for the best original film score for the same movie.


Movie guru Run Run Shaw, who is 100 years old and whose film
career spans more than 40 years, received a special honour for
his contribution to the local film industry.


The 26th awards struggled to attract some of the big-name stars.
Zhang, Li, Gong, Chow and To were all absent from the gala
evening.


Among those who stepped onto the red carpet were Tony Leung Chiu-
wai, Tony Leung Ka-fai, Aaron Kwok, Jay Chou, Donnie Yen as well
as South Korean stars Song Hye Kyo and Kwon Sang Woo.

