

Celtic must wait to discover their Scottish Cup final opponents
after Hibernian and Dunfermline drew 0-0 in their semi-final at
Hampden on Sunday.


In front of a crowd of 25,336 at the Scottish national stadium
John Collins' Hibs, looking to add to their League Cup success,
shaded the play but Dunfermline, who sit bottom of the Scottish
Premier League, also had chances to snatch the win.


Both sides will now meet in a replay on Tuesday April 24 at
Hampden to decide who faces Celtic in the final on May 26.


Hibs had started the stronger of the two sides and could have
taken the lead with a number of early chances.


Chris Hogg almost put them ahead in the third minute, heading
just wide from David Murphy's corner.


A minute later Steven Fletcher narrowly failed to get a touch on
Steven Whittaker's shot across the face of goal, with
Dunfermline's Dutch goalkeeper Dorus De Vries stranded.


Dunfermline, who had knocked both Rangers and cup holders Hearts
out in earlier rounds of the competition, were struggling to find
their feet but in the 10th minute they almost opened the scoring.


First a Jim McIntyre shot from 12-yards beat Hibs keeper Andrew
McNeil only to come back off the bottom of the post.


The ball rebounded to Jim O'Brien and he smashed a first time
effort goalwards which forced McNeil into a fine point-blank
save.


At the other end Hibs' Northern Irish international Ivan Sproule
struck a powerful right-footed shot from a tight angle which was
palmed away by De Vries at full-stretch.


The balance of the game now switched in Dunfermline's favour and
only an acrobatic save by McNeil, to tip over Phil McGuire's
curling 20-yard drive, kept the score level in the 20th minute.


After this initial flurry from both sides the game settled down
by the half-hour mark, becoming more of a midfield tussle with
less goalscoring opportunities.


Hibs keeper McNeil was again called into action in the 41st
minute, diving bravely at the feet of McIntyre to block his
effort, injuring himself in the process.


After receiving treatment on the pitch McNeil carried until the
half-time break but did not re-emerge for the second half, with
Simon Brown taking his place in the Hibs goals.


Hibs started the second half in the same manner as the first,
pushing Dunfermline back towards their goal.


Sproule came close in the 54th minute, twisting away from Pars
left-back Scott Muirhead before smashing a shot from 16-yards
towards the top corner which just missed its target.


Although Hibs were now on top Dunfermline were still dangerous on
the counter- attack.


In one such move the Fife side's Gary Mason should have done
better than shoot over from 16-yards in the 58th minute when Adam
Hammill's pass put him in on goal.


Scott Brown tried to break the deadlock for Hibs in the 70th
minute with an audacious effort from just inside the Dunfermline
half, after Pars keeper De Vries had fluffed a clearance from a
pass back.


However, the Scottish international midfielder - reported to be a
summer signing target for Celtic, Rangers and English Premiership
side Tottenham - overhit his shot which sailed over the crossbar.


Hibs' Moroccan Abdessalam Benjelloun thought he had at last
opened the scoring in the 82nd minute.


His downward shot from 16-yards bounced over De Vries towards the
top corner of the net until French centre-half Soulemayne Bamba
leapt to head clear off the line.


Dunfermline finished the match on top but in the end both sides
had to settle for another chance at reaching the showpiece match
of the Scottish season.

