

Embattled US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales insisted Sunday he
has "nothing to hide" in the probe into whether eight federal
prosecutors were fired for political reasons.


"I have nothing to hide," Gonzales said in an advance release
Sunday of his scheduled testimony before Congress this week,
which is investigating his role in the firings.


"I am committed to assuring the Congress and the American public
that nothing improper occurred here," read his statement for the
Senate Judiciary Committee.


"The sooner that all the facts are known, the sooner we can all
devote our exclusive attention to our important work -- work that
includes protecting the American people from the dangers of
terrorism, violent crime, illegal drugs, and sexual predators,"
he said in the statement.


"I know that I did not, and would not, ask for a resignation of
any individual in order to interfere with or influence a
particular prosecution for partisan political gain," he said.


But Gonzales conceded he had made mistakes in his handling of the
issue as well his deputies in the Justice Department.


"I made mistakes in not ensuring that these US Attorneys received
more dignified treatment," Gonzales said.


"Others within the Department of Justice also made mistakes. As
far as I know, these were honest mistakes of perception and
judgment and not intentional acts of misconduct."


Most of the attorneys were sacked in one fell swoop last
December, ostensibly for poor performance. Senators were expected
to concentrate on the possible role played in the firings by Karl
Rove, Bush's chief political adviser.


But members of Congress soon learned that all eight had received
good performance reviews -- a discovery that fueled allegations
that in reality, the dismissals were politically motivated.


The controversy over the firing of prosecutors has indirectly led
to the disclosure about the disappearance of relevant White House
e-mails.


Democrats are now asking if some White House officials, beginning
with Rove, may have destroyed the documents to prevent them from
falling in the hands of Congress.


The New York Times in an editorial Sunday called for Rove to
appear before Congress to clear up the air.


"The only solution is to get these issues out into the open,"
Times editors wrote.


"Mr. Rove, who seems to be at the heart of this affair, should
also be required to testify under oath, and in public," the daily
wrote.


Skeptics were given new ammunition last month when Democratic
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California revealed that San Diego US
attorney Carol Lam had been fired after she notified the Justice
Department that she intended to execute search warrants on Kyle
Dustin "Dusty" Foggo, the third-ranking CIA official at the time,
as part of an anti-corruption investigation.


Foggo was a close friend and associate of former Republican
lawmaker Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who in late 2005 pleaded guilty
to accepting 2.4 million dollars in bribes and is now in jail.


In a departure from his earlier statements, Gonzales acknowledged
that last year, he had directed his then-deputy chief of staff,
Kyle Sampson, to initiate the dismissals and approved his final
recommendations.


But Gonzales in a commentary published Sunday in the Washington
Post insisted that during his conversations with Sampson, he "did
not make decisions about who should or should not be asked to
resign."


US Senator Chuck Schumer, who has led Democrats' challenge of the
prosecutor firings, was not mollified by the attorney general's
statement.


"The opening statement of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales does
not advance his cause at all," Schumer said in prepared remarks
Sunday, adding that "not a single important question we have
asked is answered in his opening statement just released this
afternoon."


Schumer added: "The questions he is asked and the answers he will
give on Tuesday will be make or break for him.

