

The conservative leader of Germany's third biggest state has
apologised for remarks whitewashing the Nazi past of a
predecessor after calls for him to resign grew louder on Sunday.


Guenther Oettinger, a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's
Christian Democrats (CDU) and premier of Baden-Wuerttemberg in
southwestern Germany, told Monday's edition of the mass-
circulation Bild newspaper: "I am sorry."


"It was not my intention to offend the victims. If this is what
happened, I am sorry and I apologise."


Oettinger caused outrage last week when he eulogised Hans
Filbinger, a former premier of Baden-Wuerttemberg and a navy
judge under the Third Reich, as "an opponent of the Nazi regime."


Filbinger died on April 1. He was forced to resign as state
leader in 1978 following revelations about his involvement in
death sentences against deserters in World War II.


He never expressed regret about his past.


Oettinger told Bild: "It pains me that I am considered to have
declared Filbinger as a member of the resistance. He was not and
I never claimed that he was."


The apology goes further than a statement which Oettinger
released on Saturday regretting any "misunderstanding" he caused.


In an interview with the Suedwestrundfunk radio on Sunday, he
then reiterated his remark that "Filbinger was an opponent of the
regime" but sought to qualify it by saying that he believed his
predecessor had lacked the courage to resist the regime openly.


These remarks did nothing to appease Oettinger's critics.


The Central Council of Jews in Germany demanded he step down as
premier, a post he has held since April 2005.


"He has made the whole affair worse. There is only one possible
outcome to this -- he has to go," Stephan Kramer, the general
secretary of the council, told Monday's edition of Der
Tagesspiegel newspaper.


The Simon Wiesenthal Centre in Jerusalem had also demanded
Oettinger's resignation while Merkel made clear that she had
rebuked him.


The chancellor on Friday said she had told Oettinger "that beyond
honouring the great life's work of premier Hans Filbinger,
critical questions about the Nazi era had also been posed."


Politicians and observers said Oettinger had plainly been playing
to a right- wing audience in his party and beyond.


The leader of the Social Democrat coalition party, Kurt Beck,
accused him of "clearly fishing in the waters of the far-right."


Political analyst Ulrich Eith agreed, saying: "He said what the
conservatives think in their heart of hearts."


Germany has in recent years been alarmed by a steady increase in
support for the neo-Nazi National Democratic Party.

