

UN atomic watchdog chief Mohamed ElBaradei called on Iran and
Israel on Sunday to join a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East,
after talks in Jordan with King Abdullah II, the palace said.


"At the end of the day the Middle East should be a zone free of
weapons of mass destruction, a zone in which Israel and Iran are
both members," ElBaradei said, according to a palace statement.


"This is the last chance to build security in the Middle East
based on trust and cooperation and not the possession of nuclear
weapons," the International Atomic Energy Agency chief was quoted
as saying.


ElBaradei said a peace deal between Israel and its Arab
neighbours "must be reached in parallel with a security agreement
in the region based on ridding the region of all weapons of mass
destruction."


Israel is considered the sole, albeit undeclared, nuclear power
in the region with an arsenal of around 200 warheads.


Its archfoe Iran is suspected by the West of using a nuclear
energy programme to try to develop atomic weapons, something
Tehran vehemently denies.


ElBaradei also noted that "Arab countries have joined the Non-
Proliferation Treaty while Israel hasn't."


He there was an "imbalance" in the nuclear capabilities of Israel
and the Arab countries. Israel, he said, "has a nuclear deterrent
force while all Arab countries have committed their programmes to
peaceful purposes."


He reiterated calls for Iran "to cooperate with us with
sufficient transparency until we make sure that the Iranian
programme is devoted to peaceful purposes."


"We have not seen that this programme is devoted to military
purposes and we have not seen underground facilities," he said.


But he added: "There is fear over Iran's future intentions, not
today but within the next five to 10 years.


"We still have plenty of time to solve this issue peacefully, the
only way to solve the Iranian problem is through negotiations,"
ElBaradei said, dismissing a military option concerning Iran as
"unrealistic and disastrous."


ElBaradei is in Jordan to discuss the country's desire to obtain
nuclear energy to generate electricity and for other peaceful
means. Amman is the third leg of a tour that has taken him to
Saudi Arabia and Oman.

