

Celtic must wait to discover their Scottish Cup final opponents
after Hibernian and Dunfermline drew 0-0 in their semi-final at
Hampden on Sunday.


In front of a crowd of 25,336 at the Scottish national stadium,
John Collins's Hibs, looking to add to their League Cup success,
shaded the play but Dunfermline, who sit bottom of the Scottish
Premier League, also had chances to snatch the win.


Both sides will now meet in a replay on Tuesday, April 24 at
Hampden to decide who faces Celtic in the final on May 26.


Dunfermline's Irish manager Stephen Kenny was happy with his
player's efforts and the result.


He said: "I was proud of our commitment and the attitude of our
players and their determination and persistence. They were
mentally strong and although Hibs had most of the possession we
probably had the better chances.


"Hibs were excellent and I am glad I went to the League Cup Final
to watch them as they are different tactically to anyone else in
the SPL with the way they change their positions.


"Although we didn't retain possession as well as we could have
overall I'm happy with a replay."


Hibs assistant manager Tommy Craig was also content with the
result.


He said: "It was a tough match which could have gone either way
but we didn't do enough in the final third.


"You have to say that the game didn't live up to expectations but
sometimes semis are like that.


"Our aim was to win the game but we're relieved to still have
another chance."


Hibs had started the stronger of the two sides and could have
taken the lead with a number of early chances.


Chris Hogg almost put them ahead in the third minute, heading
just wide from David Murphy's corner.


A minute later Steven Fletcher narrowly failed to get a touch on
Steven Whittaker's shot across the face of goal, with
Dunfermline's Dutch goalkeeper Dorus De Vries stranded.


Dunfermline, who had knocked both Rangers and cup holders Hearts
out in earlier rounds of the competition, were struggling to find
their feet but in the 10th minute they almost opened the scoring.


First a Jamie McCunnie shot from 12-yards beat Hibs keeper Andrew
McNeil only to come back off the bottom of the post.


The ball rebounded to Jim O'Brien and he smashed a first time
effort goalwards which forced McNeil into a fine point-blank
save.


Hibs keeper McNeil was again called into action in the 41st
minute, diving bravely at the feet of Jim McIntyre to block his
effort.


McNeil was injured making the save and did not reappear from the
half-time break, with Simon Brown taking his place in the Hibs
goal.


Hibs started the second half in the same manner as the first,
pushing Dunfermline back towards their goal.


Northern Ireland striker Ivan Sproule came close in the 54th
minute, twisting away from Pars left-back Scott Muirhead before
smashing a shot from 16-yards towards the top corner which just
missed its target.


Although Hibs were on top Dunfermline were still dangerous on the
counter- attack.


Hibs' Moroccan Abdessalam Benjelloun thought he had at last
opened the scoring in the 82nd minute.


His downward shot from 16-yards bounced over De Vries towards the
top corner of the net until French centre-half Soulemayne Bamba
leapt to head clear off the line.

