

More than 20 people were killed during state polls across Nigeria
over the weekend, as tensions soared ahead of key presidential
and general elections on April 21.


Soldiers were deployed in large cities across the oil-rich
country for the second day to deter election-related unrest after
serious irregularities and violence marred Saturday's regional
vote.


"We have about 21 persons killed including some police officers
while trying to protect INEC (Independent National Electoral
Commission) officers," police Inspector General Sunday Ehindero
told Radio Nigeria after Saturday's vote.


"Of course we have some wounded too -- about 14. We have some
arms recovered. We have about 218 suspects arrested."


The regional vote is being intensely scrutinised as a test run
for next Saturday's elections, expected to usher in Nigeria's
first civilian-to-civilian transition since the former British
colony gained independence in 1960.


Police banned any form of gathering in support or against the
results of Saturday's polls amid fears of serious unrest in key
states such as Lagos, where the governorship is a position of
considerable clout.


"There should be no form of procession. No form of demonstration
will be tolerated at this stage, at least in the next 48 hours,"
national police boss Sunday Ehindero said.


He made the statement as electoral officials announced complete
results in six states -- Ogun, Ekiti, Osun, Borno, Delta and
Abia. The ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won in four while
opposition parties won in two.


Tensions have been fuelled by irregularities which the European
Union observer mission called "worrisome".


Local media gave wildly differing figures for Saturday's
casualties ranging from about 40 to more than 130, but all were
much higher than the official police figures. Ehindero said his
figure of 21 deaths could yet rise.


"As of now, it could be more than that. We have 87 cases reported
throughout the country, including arson, murder cases, thumb-
printing of ballot papers etc., " he said.


Security remained tight across the country as the results tricked
in, notably in Lagos where soldiers manned dozens of road blocks
and searched vehicles and individuals.


Soldiers were also deployed on the streets of other large cities
such Akure, Abeokuta, Osogbo, Bauchi, Ilorin and Gombe, according
to Radio Nigeria.


"We are deployed here to ensure a strict observance of security.
We will only leave on the instruction of the officers who
deployed us here," a sergeant at one of the check points told AFP
after a serach.


According to an opinion poll published Saturday by This Day
newspaper, the results in 16 out of 36 states could be too close
to call.


One of those states is Lagos, which has been controlled by the
opposition Action Congress for the past eight years.


The ruling PDP, which currently controls 28 states, has vowed to
conquer Lagos this time round.


There are fears that if electoral officials announce a PDP
victory for Lagos, supporters of Governor Bola Tinubu could
revolt.

