

Barcelona legend Hristo Stoichkov ensured that he will go down in
history at Celta Vigo after guiding the struggling club to a 1-0
victory over bitter local rivals Deportivo La Coruna on Sunday.


Stoichkov was making his debut as the Celta coach after the
prolific former striker resigned as the Bulgarian national coach
on Tuesday.


A few hours later he was unveiled as the man to try stop the
Galician club being relegated.


Brazilian striker Fernando Baiano got the only goal of the game
from the edge of the six yard box after deflecting a shot by his
Uruguayan team mate Nestor Canobbio.


It was only Celta's second home win this season but helped them
to edge out of the relegation zone.


Levante slipped into the bottom three after going down 1-0 at
Atletico Madrid.


Fernando Torres showed that despite his dismal record from the
penalty spot, he is still a classy striker with the Spanish
international firing home from just outside the area after a pass
from fellow striker Mista Ferrer.


Atletico stay in sixth but improved their chances of a place in
not only the UEFA Cup but perhaps even the Champions League after
fifth-placed Real Zaragoza crashed 1-0 at bottom club Gimnastic
Tarragona.


Former Real Madrid striker Javier Portillo headed Gimnastic in
front nine minutes before the end, connecting with a Gil corner.


Despite the win, Gimnastic stay at the foot of the table but
beating a team that only a week ago beat league leaders Barcelona
will give them hope that they can still avoid the drop with eight
games to go.


Athletic Bilbao's chances of avoiding the same fate also improved
with a 2-1 win over UEFA Cup semi-finalists Espanyol.


The visitors from Barcelona took the lead with an amazing goal
after five minutes when Jonatas found the net from just a few
yards inside the Athletic half.


Noticing that Athletic goalkeeper Daniel Aranzubia was standing
close to the edge of his area and unable to cover his goal, the
Brazilian midfielder cleverly found the net from nearly half the
length of the field.


However, Athletic can thank the renowned heading skills of former
Spanish international striker Ismael Urzaiz for their three
points.


Urzaiz got the first of his headed goals from an Andoni Iraola
free kick after 63 minutes and 15 minutes later it was the turn
of Francisco Yeste to provide the service from a free kick for
Urzaiz to head home his second goal.


Athletic, along with Barcelona and Real Madrid, have been ever-
present in the Spanish first division since its formation in
1928.


Two penalties in the last 18 minutes by Racing Santander's
Ezequiel Garay, the winner coming just seconds before the end of
regulation time, handed nine-man Real Madrid a 2-1 defeat on
Saturday.


Real, who opened the scoring through club captain Raul Gonzalez
after 33 minutes, also ended the game with just nine men after
defenders Ivan Helguera and Alvaro Mejia were sent off in the
final minutes of the game.


Real remain in third place, two points behind reigning champions
Barcelona and one in arrears of second-placed Sevilla, but the
leading pair now both have a game in hand and play later on
Sunday.


Barca are hosts to Real Mallorca but will be without their two-
time World Player of the Year Ronaldinho.


The Brazilian has been suffering from a high temperature and sore
throat since Tuesday.


"It will be interesting to see how the team reacts without
Ronaldinho. He's quite weak but he's played a lot of games and
has had very few days off," said Barcelona coach Frank Rijkaard
at a press conference on Saturday.


Sevilla, who will be without the Spanish first division's joint
leading scorer Fredi Kanoute, travel to fifth-placed Valencia.


Kanoute, who has got 19 league goals this season, stayed in
London after Sevilla drew 2-2 with Tottenham Hotspur on Thursday,
qualifying for the UEFA Cup semi- finals, to get specialist
treatment on his persistent groin problem.

