

James McFadden boosted Everton's bid for a UEFA Cup place as his
last-gasp goal clinched a 2-1 win that left Charlton deep in
trouble.


McFadden scored deep into injury time to cap a dramatic finish at
Goodison Park that saw Joleon Lescott put Everton ahead with just
nine minutes to play before Darren Bent equalised in the 89th
minute.


David Moyes's side moved into fifth place and remain firmly on
course for the top six finish that guarantees European football.


While Everton were elated, Charlton, who would have gone above
fourth bottom Sheffield United with a victory, were despondent at
a defeat that leaves them in the relegation zone.


The south London club's burning desire for a win was mirrored by
Everton and the hosts were quicker to stamp their authority on
the match. It took brave blocks from Talal El Karkouri and Ben
Thatcher to deny Andrew Johnson twice in quick succession


With so much at stake it was perhaps inevitable that the first
half was scarred by fierce tackles and misplaced passes. A burst
of skill from Leon Osman got Everton going when he curled in a
shot that deflected just wide off Souleymane Diawara.


The few moments of attacking intent in a nervous opening period
all belonged to Everton and Lee Carsley sent a 25-yard volley
dipping just over Scott Carson's crossbar.


James Beattie should have done better than head Lescott's deep
cross straight at Carson midway through the half.


Osman went close twice more the break. The midfielder was just
able to steer in Mikel Arteta's pass. Then he shot wide after
Charlton's defence gave him too much time to size up his options.


Charlton finally began to show some attacking ambition after
half-time and were close to taking the lead after 56 minutes.


China midfielder Zheng Zhi's defence-splitting pass picked out
Darren Bent, but the striker lost his composure and shot well
wide.


Zheng was making his presence felt but he was guilty of taking
his eye off the ball when he headed wide from Bent's flick just
five yards out.


Another effort from Zheng flashed over and Everton punished those
misses in the 81st minute.


Johnson's volley drew a fine stop from Carson, but Lescott was
perfectly placed to lash home from close range.


But Bent is capable of snaffling a goal out of nothing and he did
just that with just minutes left. Matt Holland's flick gave Bent
the chance to turn past two defenders before driving his shot
into the bottom corner.


Charlton thought they had escaped with a valuable point, but
McFadden had the last word in stoppage time when he fired a
superb volley past Carson to send Goodison wild.

