

Voters in Ecuador went to the polls Sunday to decide whether to
launch the broad constitutional reform process sought by leftist
President Rafael Correa, who said he might quit if he loses the
referendum.


Following weeks of political crisis over the balloting, the 9.2
million eligible voters are to decide whether a national assembly
should be elected to rewrite the constitution.


Balloting began throughout the country at 7:00 am (1200 GMT), as
scheduled.


Correa upped the stakes, saying just ahead of the voting he would
quit and "go home" if voters do not approve the project, which he
sees as a key component of his "citizens' revolution," but which
critics claim is inspired by controversial reforms implemented in
Venezuela by firebrand President Hugo Chavez.


A Cedatos-Gallup poll released a survey Friday showing 66 percent
plan to vote in favor of the project, while 15 percent oppose it.


The referendum comes less than five months after Correa was
elected on promises of radical changes, including a renegotiation
of foreign debt and a review of oil contracts.


While he admits to admiring Chavez, Correa has repeatedly denied
he intended to follow in the footsteps of the firebrand leftist
leader who, in 1999, had successfully pushed for the election of
a constituent assembly packed with his supporters.


"Nobody follows the Chavez line here, we follow the Ecuadoran
line," said Correa, who claimed citizens wanted "radical
changed," but ruled out the state would nationalize companies or
seize private properties.


Critics claimed that, like Chavez, Correa would use the
Constituent Assembly to concentrate power in his own hands and
that this would scare off foreign investors.


"I don't believe in imitations, that is, taking the Venezuelan
model and imposing it on Ecuador," said Jaime Villaroel, a 37
-year-old economist who handed out pamphlets warning voters
against giving Correa "a blank check."


"There is a risk we'll go from being dependent on the United
States to being dependent on President Chavez," said Villaroel.


Recently ousted lawmaker Alfredo Serrano raised the specter of a
strengthened leftist regime trampling human rights.


"I don't want my son to live under a regime where liberties are
violated as is the case in Venezuela," said Serrano, one of the
57 opposition lawmakers ousted from the 100-strong Congress last
month for attempting to block the referendum.


The firing of the lawmakers by an electoral court sparked a deep
political crisis in Ecuador, which has seen seven presidents come
and go since 1996, three of them leaving amid tumultuous
uprisings.


Tension eased a little after substitutes for the ousted members
were sworn in, but the opposition deputies still claim their
ouster was illegal.


Correa's party has no representatives in the unicameral Congress,
and analysts say the president will need to scramble to present
candidates for the 130-seat Constituent Assembly if voters
approve his project.


A "yes" vote on Sunday would pave the way for the election of the
assembly within three months. Once installed, the new body would
have six months to write a draft constitution that would then be
put to a referendum.


"It will be a constitution that de-politicizes the courts and
control authorities, decentralizes the state," Correa said in a
national address on Thursday.


"The state of law will have a proper division of powers," said
Correa who has decried the power of the political "elites."


He did not rule out the possibility his foes may attempt dirty
tricks during the voting, though electoral observers from the
Organization of American States said they had no indication of
any wrongdoing at this stage.

