

A village in southwestern Ireland on Sunday won another round in
a battle to change its name in the Irish language back to Fort of
the Harlot.


For years, the village in County Limerick, known as Doon in
English, had been known in Irish as Dun Bleisce, or Fort of the
Harlot, but the name was changed in 2003.


Possibly due to bureaucratic sensitivities, Irish language
Minister Eamon O Cuiv ordered the village's Gaelic name be
changed to simply An Dun, or the Fort.


The unpopular move resulted in about 1,000 locals signing a
petition seeking to have 'harlot' added back to the name. They
were backed by local politicians and a Limerick County Council
motion of support.


O Cuiv asked the country's Placenames Commission, the official
arbiter of Gaelic names, to "consider afresh" their advice.


In a statement, he said the commission had confirmed its view
that "An Dun" is the "appropriate Irish version" of the name, but
has also confirmed that the alternative "Dun Bleisce" has an
"attested historical basis".


Having considered the matter carefully, the minister said that
"as there is historical evidence to support both versions of the
Irish name, I am open to accede to their request and it is
legally permissible within the existing legislation for me to do
so".


O Cuiv said he had published a draft order to change the
village's name back, and that he welcomed further comments from
the public.


"Assuming no strong objections are received, I propose to make
the order in four weeks' time," he said


Local councillor Mary Jackman said she was absolutely delighted
for the local people.


"I am really thrilled. Signposts had always been Dun Bleisce and
I think it was bureaucracy or a little glitch in interpretation
that changed it," she told AFP.


Jackman said the literal translation of the Gaelic word may be
harlot but the woman who the village was named after in ancient
times may not have been a harlot in the sense of the term today.


"I believe that blesc was not a derogatory term in those days. It
would have meant that she was a strong or powerful woman in the
locality," she said.

