

Belgian cycling ace Tom Boonen played down the suggestions of
meltdown after he finished off the podium of a scorching Paris-
Roubaix one-day classic on Sunday.


The 2005 champion was one of the main race protagonists in the
cobblestoned killer classic prior to Stuart O'Grady's stylish
first ever victory for him in his country in the race known as
the 'Hell of the North.'


However Boonen ultimately left a series of attacks in the latter
stages of the race too late to close the gap on a bunch of riders
who ended up leaving him off the podium of one of his favoured
races.


Boonen is the former world champion who in 2005 won both Paris-
Roubaix and the Tour of Flanders. In 2006, he defended his
Flanders crown, and finished runner- up in Roubaix to
Switzerland's Fabian Cancellara.


This season the Belgian has not been quite so successful in
April's first two big classics.


But Boonen, who has a string of other significant victories this
season, said it was time to put his relative setbacks in
perspective.


"I'm happy with my season so far. You can't win Paris-Roubaix or
the Tour of Flanders every year, and I'm happy with the results
I've had so far this season," said the 27-year-old.


Boonen finished sixth, at nearly a minute behind O'Grady, after
his attempts to close the gap in the closing stages were
compromised by a lack of help from rivals who could have helped
him and themselves.


Boonen moaned: "We probably missed out from not having one other
guy up near the front in the finale of the race, but when I
attacked I was the only one who wanted to close the gap.


"Everyone wanted to ride with me but no-one wanted to help me.
And that left me in a difficult situation. I wanted to catch the
guys in front, but I also had to be watchful of the guys who were
hanging on my wheel."


In the closing 15km O'Grady had surged ahead of Juan Antonio
Flecha of Spain and Switzerland's Steffen Wesemann to build a
quick and decisive 50-sec lead.


Boonen was doing well closing the small gap he had on Flecha and
Wesemann, but by that time O'Grady's win was virtually assured.


"I tried to attack again in the end, but by then it was too late
for the win," added the Belgian.


"O'Grady was very strong. I was trying my hardest and the gap
wasn't getting any smaller."


Boonen, who finished third in Milan-San Remo last month but
finished off the podium at the Tour of Flanders and out of the
top 20 in Gent-Wevelgem in midweek, added: "If I had had a little
more help and the race was 10km longer, it could have been a
different story."

