

Brazil's Felipe Massa driving a Ferrari won the Bahrain Formula
One Grand Prix here on Sunday to record his third career victory.


Englishman Lewis Hamilton was second in a McClaren - becoming the
first driver to finish on the podium in his first three Grand
Prix - and Kimi Raikkonen of Finland in another Ferrari was
third.


World champion Fernando Alonso could finish only fifth.


For Massa, the victory will go someway to banishing the
disappointment of last weekend's race in Malaysia when he
finished fifth after starting on pole.


The Brazilian won by 2.5 seconds from Hamilton on the desert
track at Sakhir with Raikkonen eight seconds further adrift.


Germany's Nick Heidfeld finished fourth for BMW-Sauber
frustrating Alonso, who struggled to match the pace of his
younger more inexperienced team-mate all weekend.


The result leaves Alonso, Hamilton and Raikkonen locked together
on 22 points at the top of the drivers standings with Massa
fourth, five points adrift, following the third victory of his
career.


Poland's Robert Kubica was sixth for BMW with Italy's Jarno
Trulli seventh for Toyota and his countryman Giancarlo Fisichella
eighth for Renault.


McLaren maintain their lead in the Constructors championship with
44 points, but Ferrari first and third finish mean they are now
just five points behind.


The much talked about start was perfectly handled by Massa as he
beat Hamilton to the first corner leaving Alonso and Raikkonen to
jostle for third spot with the double world champion winning out.


But within four corners the safety car was being sent out after
Honda's Jenson Button and Toro Rosso's American driver Scott
Speed crashed. Spyker's Adrian Sutil was caught up in the
collision and he was forced to pit for a new front wing.


Massa and Hamilton were then nip and tuck for the opening 19 laps
until the young British driver pitted.


The Brazilian then pitted two laps later and began pulling away
with his Ferrari clearly having the edge on pace. It was a bad
day for Alonso who was struggling on the desert track.


He held up the Ferrari of Raikkonen who eventually got past in
the first round of pit-stops and set about closing the gap to
Hamilton.


The Spaniard, who won the race last year, then fell victim to
Heidfeld as the German who powered his way past on the outside on
lap 32 to take fourth spot.


Britain's David Coulthard had a storming race as he carved his
way from 21st to seventh before the Renault engine on his Red
Bull Racing car gave way on lap 37.


He was followed back to the pits by Australian teammate Mark
Webber who completed a disappointing afternoon for the Red Bull
team when he stopped a few laps later.


Massa came into the pits before Hamilton for his final stop on
lap 40 with a seven second advantage.


Raikkonen then dashed in the pits on the next lap followed by
Heidfeld with Hamilton making his final stop with 13 of the
57-laps left.


Hamilton returned to the track just ahead of Raikkonen, but
unlike in Malaysia last Sunday when he had to fend off the Finn,
this time the rookie pulled away and chased down Massa before
running out of laps.

