

Two people were killed and one very seriously wounded Sunday when
two British military helicopters crashed in Iraq, Defence
Secretary Des Browne said here.


The crash appeared to be an accident, Browne said, while Prime
Minister Tony Blair said it would be a time of "great grief and
anguish" for the families of those killed.


The Puma helicopters, which normally carry up to 16 people with a
crew of three, came down in the early hours of the morning in a
rural area southwest of Taji, home to a huge American military
base north of Baghdad.


"Now that next of kin have been informed, I can confirm that the
two helicopters reported this morning as having crashed north of
Baghdad earlier today were, in fact, both UK helicopters," Browne
said in a statement.


"Sadly, two personnel have died and one is very seriously
injured. All of these were UK personnel. My thoughts and sympathy
are with them and their families.


"Initial reports indicate that the crash was an accident and was
not a result of an attack by insurgents. An investigation is
underway."


It was understood that the others on board escaped with minor
cuts and bruises and further details of the incident would not be
released before Monday.


The deaths brought to 142 the number of British fatalities in
Iraq since the US- led invasion in March 2003.


Of those, 109 have died in action, while 31 have died as a result
of accidents, non-combat injuries or illness.


The BBC, citing military sources, said the helicopters were
taking part in a special forces operation, which would therefore
explain why the incident occurred so far north of where British
troops are based: the main southern city of Basra.


A defence ministry spokesman said: "I can't talk about the
particular mission they were involved in, but we do have units
operating as part of the coalition across Iraq."


The US military said the crash appeared to be the result of a
mid-air collision.


"We simply know as the Ministry of Defence has said, that we
believe it was almost certainly an accident," British Prime
Minister Tony Blair told BBC television.


"I reflect again as we've lost forces in Iraq today -- for the
families this is always a terrible time, a time of great grief
and anguish.


"But what our forces are doing there, what British forces are
doing in Iraq and Afghanistan, is they are fighting the same
forces of terrorism and extremism that are operating around the
world today.


"And I believe in time people will realise why it is important
that we fight these people wherever they are."

