

The US government faced claims Tuesday it was an "international
bully" as lawyers for inmates of the "war on terror" camp at
Guantanamo Bay demanded Congress grant basic rights to their
clients.


Attorneys and academics appealed to lawmakers to reverse
provisions of the hotly debated Military Commissions Act of 2006,
which blocked federal courts from hearing challenges from
detainees designated "enemy combatants."


"Our constitution is under attack," said Vincent Warren of the
Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR) which represents some
detainees of the camp in Cuba, and has battled the Bush
administration over their fate.


"Fairness does not jeopardize national security, the constitution
can withstand the war on terror," he said.


More than 70 lawyers and academics urged lawmakers to restore the
writ of habeas corpus to detainees. Such petitions are seen by
campaigners as a fundamental underpinning of justice, as they
would allow detainees to learn why they were captured.


"These men have been there for five years, in small cages," said
Thomas Sullivan, a Chicago lawyer with clients in Guantanamo Bay.


"We are turning into an international bully. I fear that our
children and their children will pay a heavy price for what we
have done and are now doing at Guantanamo Bay."


Democratic Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee meanwhile vowed the
new Democratic Party Congress would restore the right of habeas
corpus.


"Stripping the federal courts of jurisdiction over habeas corpus
provisions filed on behalf of designated "enemy combatants" at
Guantanamo Bay, for example, is not consistent with American
values," she said.


"This is not about who the terrorists are, this is about who we
are."


The US Supreme Court in April handed the Bush administration a
key victory in its war on terror legal strategy by ruling dozens
of Guantanamo Bay inmates had no right to challenge their
detention in federal court.


The petition was filed on behalf of inmates who have little
prospect of facing formal charges, a tribunal or a return to
their home countries.

