

Turkish shares and the currency extended their losses on Tuesday
amid a political crisis over presidential elections that has set
the Islamist-rooted government against the army.


The national index of the Istanbul stock exchange lost 1,119
points, or 2.49 percent, in morning trading to 43,865.4 points.
The index had shed 4.0 percent on Monday.


The lira traded at about 1.377 against the dollar, losing about
0.7 percent of its value since Monday.


The fall came as investors anxiously weighed the implications of
an expected ruling by the country's top court on a first round of
voting in presidential elections in which Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist, is the sole candidate.


The main opposition has asked the Constitutional Court to annul
Friday's vote in which Gul narrowly missed becoming the next head
of state.


If the court rejects the demand, presidential elections will move
forward  with a second round of voting on Wednesday and Gul is
all but certain to be elected the next head of state in the third
round on May 9.


"The persistance of Gul's candidacy will plunge Turkey into
greater tensions. That is our short-term concern," Saruhan Dogan,
chief economist at Finansbank told the CNN-Turk news channel.


The Turkish army issued an unusually strong statement after
Friday's vote, threatening to take action to protect the secular
order.


The government responded the next day by sharply reminding the
army that it remains under the orders of the civilian authority.


If the Constitutional Court cancels Friday's round of voting,
early elections could be called within three months.


Dogan said markets currently viewed early elections as a "life
ring," but investors were concerned that the polls could
jeopardise five years of political stability in the high-growth
country.


Recent polls have tipped the ruling Justice and Development Party
(AKP) to come out first in general elections that are currently
set for November 4.


It was a scenario that was welcomed by investors as the AKP led
the country to a spectacular economic recovery from its worst
recession in years, attracted record foreign investment and
slashed chronic inflation.


But the current crisis has changed the picture.


"The AKP, which promotes itself as a centre-right party, has
suddenly turned into a radical party which clashes with the basic
institutions of the republic. This could affect the party's votes
in elections," Dogan said.


Political stability is key to financial markets who believe a
strong government will keep Turkey on track to carry out economic
and political reforms demanded by the International Monetary Fund
and the European Union, which Ankara is seeking to join.

