

Qatar asked Japan on Tuesday to provide technical support to
develop nuclear energy for peaceful ends, saying the resource-
rich Gulf state is ready to export more natural gas to Tokyo in
return.


Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani made the
request when he met Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, now on a
Gulf tour aiming to affirm energy partnership.


"Qatar is interested in nuclear power generation and we hope that
Japan will cooperate," Sheikh Hamad told Abe, according to a
Japanese government official.


"If the cooperation proceeds, (Qatar) will be able to supply much
more natural gas to Japan," Hamad said.


Abe replied that support for nuclear energy development for
peaceful purposes will be a "meaningful international
contribution," the official said.


But Abe stopped short of promising to provide technical support,
saying: "It is beneficial to make use of technological support
through the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) at first."


He also said it is necessary for Qatar to study how to maintain
nuclear fuel security and nuclear non-proliferation before
actually introducing a nuclear energy programme.


Japan has virtually no oil or gas reserves of its own and heavily
relies for its oil supply on Gulf Arab states. It is one of the
most advanced countries in nuclear energy development for
civilian use.


Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the Vienna-based IAEA, said in
mid-April that the oil-rich Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) has
the right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful ends.


During their annual meeting in Riyadh in December, GCC heads of
state announced their determination to develop a joint nuclear
technology programme for peaceful use under international rules.


Their interest in developing atomic energy comes amid a
continuing standoff between the West and GCC neighbour Iran over
its programme to enrich uranium.


The six GCC countries are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.

