

Violent clashes marred massive May Day rallies around the world
Tuesday with more than 700 protesters arrested in the worst riots
in Istanbul, while Fidel Castro was a no-show in Cuba.


Much of the global political focus had been on whether Cuba's
ailing leader would make his first public appearance at Havana's
annual May Day event since he underwent major surgery nine months
ago.


The fact that he failed to appear for only the third time in 48
years in power -- the other two being when he was out of the
country -- will fuel speculation about the state of the 80-year-
old's health.


The traditional day of workers' solidarity was marked with widely
varying turnouts, from several hundred Iranians who took to the
streets of Tehran to demand better working conditions, to 100,000
Italian union activists who marched in Turin.


And there was an historic rally in South Korea, when workers from
the two Koreas held the first joint May Day celebrations to call
for the reunification of their divided homeland.


The worst violence was in Istanbul, where police fired shots in
the air and used tear gas and water cannons to disperse left-wing
demonstrators intent on holding a banned rally in one of the
city's central squares.


More than 700 people, including almost 200 women, were detained,
according to police.


Public transport was paralysed in the sprawling city of more than
12 million, where tensions are already running high between the
army and government over a disputed presidential election.


The authorities had banned marchers from accessing Taksim Square
to mark the 30th anniversary there of "Bloody May Day" -- when 34
people died after unknown gunmen fired on a peaceful crowd
triggering mass panic.


In rare scenes of civil unrest in the southern Chinese enclave of
Macau, police also fired warning shots with what were thought to
be starter pistols after a crowd of more than 1,000 broke through
police cordons lining a May Day march route.


Almost 120 people were arrested in clashes in Berlin between
demonstrators and police, while neo-Nazis and counter-protesters
faced off across the country.


Some 5,000 police officers were deployed to avert the riots and
mass vandalism by far-left demonstrators that have marred the
labour day holiday in Berlin for two decades.


Czech police said they had arrested dozens of people following
violence between anarchist groups and the far-right in Prague.


In Manila, riot police fanned out as 5,000 people waving red
banners with the communist gold hammer and sickle were blocked
from marching on the palace of President Gloria Arroyo demanding
her resignation.


In Thailand, about 10,000 workers marched through the centre of
the capital, Bangkok, railing against the military-backed
government which took power after a coup last September and
demanding an immediate return to democracy.


Tens of thousands of people across Russia called for higher
salaries and pensions in demonstrations that for the most part
carefully avoided criticism of the Kremlin.


Russian state television showed crowds gathering in cities from
Vladivostok to Moscow with demonstrators, mostly organised by the
trade unions, Communist Party, and pro-Kremlin parties.


In the southern South Korean city of Changwon, some 2,000
workers, including 60 from North Korea, waved "unification flags"
during a special rally.


It was the first time since the 1950-1953 Korean War that North
Korean workers had visited South Korea for the annual labour
festival.


Meanwhile, a Pakistani labourer was in a critical condition in
hospital after setting his petrol-covered body ablaze in protest
at alleged bad treatment by his employers and poor living
conditions.


There was better news in Kenya and Burundi where the presidents
used the occasion to make generous offers.


Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki promised free education in public
secondary schools starting next year, while Burundi President
Pierre Nkurunziza awarded government workers a 34-percent pay
rise.

