

England coach Brian Ashton is hoping a mixture of youth and
experience will give his squad the edge when they face South
Africa in what he has predicted will be a tough two-test tour.


Ashton announced a 30-man squad, to be captained by Jason
Robinson, on Tuesday for upcoming tests against the Springboks in
Bloemfontein on May 26 and Pretoria on June 2.


Seven uncapped players in props Nick Wood (Gloucester) and Darren
Crompton (Bristol Rugby), back row Peter Buxton (Gloucester),
locks Roy Winters (Bristol) and Dean Schofield (Sale Sharks),
Saracens hooker Matt Cairns and full-back Mike Brown (NEC
Harlequins), will fill out Ashton's squad.


Ashton said: "If you look at some of the experienced characters
as well as some of the younger players who have recently appeared
on the international scene it's an interesting mixture.


"It's going to be an enormous challenge for these players. We are
under no illusions - it is going to be an incredibly tough two-
and-a-half weeks but I don't expect any of the players or
management to back down from that challenge."


Ashton said Robinson's recent return to form in the Six Nations
left him as the obvious choice to captain England, and the
skipper is delighted to be wearing the armband again.


Robinson said: "I am delighted to be appointed captain of England
again for the forthcoming games in South Africa. I thoroughly
enjoyed my previous spell as captain and am looking forward to
the trip as I have never played there before."


Robinson is joined by fellow 2003 Rugby World Cup winners Jonny
Wilkinson (Newcastle Falcons), Mark Regan (Bristol), Andy
Gomarsall (NEC Harlequins) and Ben Cohen (Northampton Saints).


Players from London Wasps, Leicester Tigers and Bath Rugby were
not considered because of their participation in European finals
on May 19 and 20, Perry Freshwater because of Perpignan
commitments, while eight players are unavailable through injury.


Ashton added: "Shane Geraghty (London Irish, hamstring) has not
played since March 24 and it would be nine weeks come the first
test so it would be highly unlikely that he would start.


Among the players not considered because of injury are Mike Catt
(London Irish), Mark Cueto (Sale Sharks), James Forrester
(Gloucester), Charlie Hodgson (Sale Sharks), Olly Morgan
(Gloucester), Andrew Sheridan (Sale Sharks), Mike Tindall
(Gloucester), Dan Ward-Smith (Bristol Rugby).


Squad


Forwards


Alex Brown (Gloucester), Peter Buxton (Gloucester), Matt Cairns
(Saracens), Darren Crompton (Bristol), Nick Easter (NEC
Harlequins), Andy Hazell (Gloucester), Chris Jones (Sale Sharks),
Magnus Lund (Sale Sharks), Mark Regan (Bristol), Pat Sanderson
(Worcester Warriors), Dean Schofield (Sale Sharks), Andy
Titterrell (Sale Sharks), Stuart Turner (Sale Sharks), Roy
Winters (Bristol), Nick Wood (Gloucester), Kevin Yates (Saracens)


Backs


Anthony Allen (Gloucester), Mike Brown (NEC Harlequins), Ben
Cohen (Northampton Saints), Andy Farrell (Saracens), Toby Flood
(Newcastle Falcons), Andy Gomarsall (NEC Harlequins), Jamie Noon
(Newcastle Falcons), Shaun Perry (Bristol Rugby), Jason Robinson
(capt, Sale Sharks), Peter Richards (Gloucester Rugby), James
Simpson-Daniel (Gloucester), David Strettle (NEC Harlequins),
Mathew Tait (Newcastle Falcons), Jonny Wilkinson (Newcastle
Falcons)

