

Paul-Henri Mathieu upset fourth seed Fernando Gonzalez 6-2, 6-4
to lead a one- two knockout punch for France here on Tuesday at
the Estoril Open.


The unseeded Mathieu beat world number six Gonzalez for the third
time in a row as he stunned the slumping Chilean.


Mathieu, winner at the weekend of the Casablanca title, was
joined in the second round by compatriot Richard Gasquet.


The fifth seed continued his early-season progress on clay as he
defeated Max Mirnyi 6-3, 6-3.


The French youngster beat the big Belarussian for the second time
after winning the Nottingham title on grass against the East
European two years ago.


Mathieu has cast a spell over Gonzalez after beating the South
American in three straight meetings dating back to 2005.


"It's good to be able to beat a guy in the Top ten, it gives you
confidence," said world number 42 Mathieu, now 4-1 in 2007
against Top ten players after beating Gonzalez twice and Estoril
top seed Nikolay Davydenko in Sydney and in the Davis Cup.


"The rain was difficult, but you have to be focussed and move
well. I had only 20 minutes to practise after coming from
Casablanca. Even the balls are different."


Gonzalez, a first-round loser in Monte Carlo for a dismal start
to the Roland Garros campaign, had no explanation for his lack of
form.


"I'm not feeling my game," said the Australian Open finalist.
"I'm not worried, but I'm not able to play my best.


"You can't always be in your best shape and play your best game.
That's what's happening to me now."


Gasquet, ranked 15th, moved into a match with Portugal's hero of
the week Frederico Gil.


"It's always tough to play Mirnyi because of his serve," Gasquet
said of his opponent, limited to just four aces on a day of heavy
conditions and humidity.


"But I was able to play my game and I'm happy to go through. I'm
pleased with my season on clay so far and I hope to improve.


"In the next match I know I won't be the crowd favourite, but I
will have a job to do against Gil. He is young and talented with
nothing to lose."


Spain's Guillermo Garcia-Lopez dulled the 29th birthday
celebrations for American Michael Russell with a comprehensive
6-1, 6-2 defeat.


American veteran Vince Spadea scratched out a win in two hours
over Russian Teimuraz Gabashvili 6-1, 5-7, 6-4 to move into a
second-round challenge against either top seed Davydenko or
French qualifier Olivier Patience.


In women's play, it was smooth sailing at the costal city for
leading seeds.


France's number one Marion Bartoli overwhelmed number 330 Neuza
Silva 6-2, 6-1 while second seed Francesca Schiavone of Italy was
equally untroubled by Croatian Ivana Lisjak 6-1, 7-5.


Caroline Wozniacki, last summer's Wimbledon junior champion,
upset German fourth seed Martina Muller 6-4, 6-0. Italian eighth
seed Flavia Pennetta, a 2006 semi- finalist, beat Spain's Arantxa
Parra Santonja 6-3, 6-1.

