

John Browne, chief executive of British energy giant BP,
unexpectedly resigned Tuesday after a newspaper group won a legal
battle to publish details of his relationship with another man.


Browne had been due to retire in July after 12 years at the helm
of Europe's biggest energy group -- but will now be replaced
immediately by his chosen successor Tony Hayward, BP said in a
statement.


"Browne tendered his resignation after the lifting by the UK
courts of a legal injunction preventing a newspaper group from
publishing details of his private life," the group said.


BP added that as a result of his decision to resign, Browne would
lose his entitlement to a leaving package worth 3.5 million
pounds (5.15 million euros, 7.0 million dollars) and a potential
12 million pounds worth of shares.


Browne, 59, has failed to prevent Associated Newspapers
publishing a story about his relationship with Canadian Jeff
Chevalier, his former partner of four years.


"In my 41 years with BP I have kept my private life separate from
my business life," Browne said in the BP statement.


"I have always regarded my sexuality as a personal matter, to be
kept private. It is a matter of deep disappointment that a
newspaper group has now decided that allegations about my
personal life should be made public.


"Concerning the court documents disclosed today, I wish to
acknowledge that I did have a four-year relationship with Jeff
Chevalier who has now chosen to tell his story to Associated
Newspapers, publishers of The Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and
Evening Standard.


"These allegations are full of misleading and erroneous claims.
In particular, I deny categorically any allegations of improper
conduct relating to BP," Browne added.


However, Browne added that in initial witness statements, he had
lied about how he met Chevalier.


"This account, prompted by my embarrassment and shock at the
revelations, is a matter of deep regret. It was retracted and
corrected. I have apologised unreservedly, and do so again
today," Browne said.


Browne had announced in January that he planned to quit in July,
nearly 18 months ahead of schedule. Some analysts had blamed that
change on BP's struggle to regain investor confidence after a
traumatic two years.


This was highlighted by a fatal explosion at the Texas City
refinery in the United States that left 15 people dead, and the
partial shutdown of its 400,000-barrel per day Prudhoe Bay field
in Alaska following a leak in poorly maintained pipelines.


BP is struggling also to reverse a slide to its energy
production. Last week it reported the seventh successive fall in
quarterly output, alongside a 17-percent drop in first-quarter
net earnings despite strong oil prices.


With BP experiencing slowing output the group had announced in
January that Hayward, its head of exploration and production
business, would be replacing Browne.


BP's chief executive leaves, however, as a widely-respected boss
after transforming the oil and gas group from a struggling
organisation into one of the world's biggest oil companies in
terms of stock market capitalisation.


BP noted in January that during his tenure as the chief
executive, Browne had presided over a five-fold increase in the
company's market capitalisation to 104.6 billion pounds and
profits to 22.3 billion dollars.


In addition, the group's share price has risen more than 250
percent.


Also in January, Browne was named as Britain's most impressive
businessman for the seventh time in eight years by a survey of
his peers.


Browne was selected by 28 of the 103 business leaders queried in
the Ipsos Mori Captains of Industry survey.

