

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice travels Tuesday for a
series of meetings on Iraq, ready to open a long-awaited but
"firm" dialogue with the previously taboo regimes in Iran and
Syria.


Struggling to gain some diplomatic momentum in a Middle East
roiling with crisis, Rice is widely expected to break with the US
administration's boycott of Tehran and Damascus during the talks.


The meetings Thursday and Friday at the Egyptian Red Sea resort
of Sharm el- Sheikh -- one between Iraqi donors aimed at slashing
Baghdad's foreign debt and boosting reconstruction efforts, and a
second on security -- will involve all Iraq's neighbors.


Also included are the five permanent UN Security Council members
plus leaders of the United Nations, European Union, Canada,
Germany and Japan.


President George W. Bush said Tuesday that the conference will be
"an important test" of whether Iran and Syria truly want to help
their war-torn neighbor.


"Iran and Syria have been invited to attend. This will be an
important test of whether these regimes are truly interested in
playing a constructive role in Iraq," Bush said in a speech
defending his handling of the unpopular war.


At the event all eyes will be on Rice, to see if she finally
takes the leap and meets directly with her Iranian counterpart,
Manouchehr Mottaki, for the highest level substantive discussions
between the two nations since Washington broke off relations with
Tehran in 1980 over the embassy hostage crisis.


After weeks of refusing to confirm whether or not Rice would talk
to Mottaki, the US president left little doubt in remarks Monday
that Rice would press ahead.


Rice "would be polite but firm" if she encounters Mottaki,
"reminding the representative of the Iranian government that
there is a better way forward for the Iranian people," Bush told
reporters.


However, Iran on Tuesday ruled out engaging in a "dialogue" with
Rice at the Iraqi security conference, saying the time was not
right for negotiations.


"For the moment the conditions do not exist for such a dialogue,"
Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostafavi said.


"The United States cannot have this hostile attitude and say on
the other hand that they are favorable to negotiations," he told
the ISNA news agency.


Washington says Tehran is trying to develop nuclear weapons,
supports anti-US and sectarian violence in Iraq, and backs
violent extremists in Lebanon and among the Palestinians.


US officials have insisted that any US-Iran discussions at Sharm
el-Sheikh will be strictly limited to Iraq-related issues,
leaving the thorniest issue of Tehran's nuclear program for a
separate, multilateral negotiating track.


After the Iraq event, Rice will meet with major powers involved
in Mideast peace as well as Syria, State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack said Tuesday.


There will be "an informal meeting between members of the Quartet
and the Arab delegation that has been designated as the
delegation that's going to be explaining the Arab League
initiative," said McCormack.


Egypt and Jordan will also participate, McCormack said. "I
believe the Saudis and the Syrians will be there as well," he
said.


At a March summit in Riyadh, Arab leaders revived a five-year-old
peace plan that offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 Middle East war, and allows for
the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


The Quartet groups representatives of the European Union, the
United Nations, the United States and Russia.


Washington accuses Damascus of letting anti-US insurgents cross
from Syria into Iraq, and of supporting terrorist groups in
Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories.


The latest US government report on terrorism, issued Monday,
ranked Iran and Syria as the two top "state sponsors of
terrorism."


Yet the Bush administration has been under intense pressure at
home and abroad to engage directly with both governments in order
to stabilize Iraq and end the costly US occupation of the
country.

