

Diplomats tried to rescue a nuclear conference on Tuesday
following Iranian objections to any focus on compliance with the
Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT).


Failure to overcome the procedural hitch could cut short the two-
week meeting in Vienna which is the first of a series of
preparatory conferences ahead of a general review of the NPT in
2010 designed to find ways to improve the treaty.


Diplomats said they feared the Vienna meeting could descend into
procedural wrangling as happened at the last review conference in
New York in May 2005, at a time of nuclear crises in both Iran
and North Korea.


At issue is Iran's objection to the conference's agenda which
states there will be discussion on "reaffirming the need for full
compliance with the treaty."


On Monday Iranian ambassador Ali Asghar Soltanieh surprised the
opening session when he insisted that the item could "create
disputes by creating too much focus on one country. We don't want
a direction given."


In March 2006, the UN nuclear watchdog International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) reported Iran to the UN Security Council for
failing to comply with its NPT safeguards agreement by hiding its
nuclear activities.


The IAEA verifies whether states without nuclear weapons have
peaceful atomic programs or are diverting nuclear material for
military purposes.


The Security Council has over the past year twice levied
sanctions on Iran for defying its calls to suspend uranium
enrichment and for failing to comply with an IAEA investigation
into Iran's nuclear prorgram.


Diplomats said Iran was isolated at the Vienna meeting, with even
its main ally Russia working towards a consensus on an agenda,
the preferred way of operating at such conferences.


There was some confusion about whether Iran wanted to substitute
the agenda prepared by the meeting's chairman Yukiya Amano for
one from 2005 or a meeting in 2002.


The general feeling, said one diplomat, was that whatever the
technicalities, it was normal to discuss compliance, since this
is a central tenet of the NPT.


"Iran can not be allowed to hold the conference hostage," the
diplomat said.


The NPT, which went into effect at the height of the Cold War in
1970 to control the spread of nuclear weapons and was extended
indefinitely in 1995, is reviewed every five years.


Western powers say they fear Iran is developing a nuclear
arsenal, but Tehran denies this and says its nuclear program is a
peaceful effort to generate electricity.


A diplomat said it was "revelatory" that Iran wanted to block a
full debate on compliance.


One diplomat said that Soltanieh felt that "singling out
compliance had a particular motivation" and was directed against
Iran.


The diplomat said Arab nations, which normally back Iran at NPT
discussions, were unhappy because there was a reference they
liked to resolutions on the Middle East in the agenda.


An Arab diplomat said Iran was trying, in the wake of UN
sanctions, to send the signal that "if you are going to bash us,
then we are going to make it difficult for you too."


The diplomat said a "face-saving formula" was needed to save the
conference.

