

A senior US lawmaker warned Tuesday China must not be allowed to
turn the 2008 Olympics into the "genocide" Games and demanded US
security aid for the sports festival must safeguard human rights.


Democratic Representative Tom Lantos raised his concerns directly
with Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte, a day after
Amnesty International warned China was using the Olympics as a
catalyst for repression.


"We don't want these Olympics to go down in the history books as
the genocide Olympics," said Lantos, chairman of the House of
Representatives committee on foreign affairs.


Lantos called on the US government to ensure security cooperation
with Beijing, designed to protect the Games from terror attacks,
would not in any way infringe basic human rights and free
expression.


Last week, five Americans were expelled from China after staging
an illegal protest at Mount Everest base camp in Tibet.


China lodged an official protest with the United States over the
protest, in which the Americans called for Tibetan independence
and voiced outrage at the 2008 Olympic torch passing through the
Himalayan region.


Beijing has also been at odds with Taiwan, which it regards as a
breakaway province, over a plan to take the torch through the
island.


"It is outrageous that China is using the very symbol of
international unity and brotherhood to further grind down the
Tibetans and the Taiwanese who simply want to live their lives
without interference from Beijing," Lantos said.


Negroponte said US security assistance for China during the 2008
Games was being conducted through the State Department and the US
embassy in Beijing, but pledged to get back to members of
Congress with further details.


Rights group Amnesty Monday gave China a failing grade in its
third report since 2005 on the Olympic host nation's respect for
international human rights standards in the run-up to the Beijing
Games.


Citing "little evidence of reform" in several areas, the report
painted a bleak picture showing the Olympics "as a catalyst (for)
a continued crackdown on human rights defenders, including
prominent rights defense lawyers and those attempting to report
on human rights violations."


China dismissed the report as biased and insisted it was making
progress on human rights.


The group said the International Olympic Committee (IOC), which
awarded Beijing the 2008 Games, should pressure China on human
rights issues in the run-up to the sporting extravaganza.


The IOC executive board said recently it had no such leverage.

