

Venezuela on Tuesday took control of privately run installations
in what could be the world's richest oil fields, as part of
leftist President Hugo Chavez's nationalization drive.


State-run Petroleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) will now have a minimum
60 percent stake in four joint ventures in the Orinoco River
basin, which can produce 600,000 barrels of crude a day, or one
fifth of the country's total production, and are valued at 25
billion dollars.


The move is part of a wide-ranging nationalization drive the
firebrand president launched in January. It already has extended
to the telecommunications and electricity sectors, and involved
the takeover of idle land and tighter controls over the private
health sector.


Chavez has vowed to battle what he calls the influence of the "US
empire," and to take Venezuela on a path toward "21st century
socialism."


On Monday, he announced the South American country would pull out
of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.


Early Tuesday morning, workers, sporting red helmets and waving
Venezuelan flags, symbolically took control of the Jose Oil
Processing plant, 300 kilometers (187 miles) east of Caracas.


"The president told us to take full control of our oil
sovereignty and that is what we are doing," said Energy Minister
Rafael Ramirez.


Chavez was scheduled to mark the latest move at a May Day event
at the oil facility in the heart of the 55,300 square kilometer
(21,350 square mile) Orinoco basin.


The multinationals involved in the projects -- France's Total,
Norway's Statoil, US companies Chevron Texaco and Exxon Mobil,
British Petroleum and Germany's Veba Oel -- have signed an
agreement in principle to cede control to the state.


But Conoco Philips is still involved in arduous negotiations,
while Petrocanada and ENI also said they have not signed the
agreement.


The companies have until August 26 to negotiate details of the
deals.


Venezuela, Latin America's only member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC,) hopes to certify by 2008
Orinoco has oil reserves of 1.3 trillion barrels, of which about
20 percent can be extracted with current technology.


But the fuel is a highly viscous, extra heavy crude, which needs
special processing to turn it into synthetic oil before it can be
refined.


In the past the big oil companies paid only one percent in
royalties for the crude extracted from Orinoco and argued this
was justified by the high cost of processing the fuel. Royalties
have been raised to 33.2 percent, while taxes went up from 34
percent to 50 percent.


Venezuela, is the world's fifth largest oil exporter and sells
about half its daily output of 3.09 million barrels to the United
States.

