

The European Union has promised to help end a siege at the
Estonian embassy in Moscow sparked by the removal of a Soviet-era
war memorial in Tallinn, Estonia's Foreign Minister Urmas Paet
said Tuesday.


Paet said he had spoken to his German counterpart Frank-Walter
Steinmeier who "promised speedy assistance from the European
Union to normalise the situation around the Estonian embassy in
Moscow."


Germany currently holds the rotating presidency of the EU.


About 100 youths from pro-Kremlin organisations Young Guard and
Ours have ringed the Estonian embassy since Friday, chanting
anti-Estonian government slogans and pointing the barrel of a
green inflatable tank at it.


On Tuesday, a demonstrator ripped the Estonian flag from its
staff in front of the embassy, an Estonian official inside said.


Police detained the man and returned the flag to the embassy.


The Russian authorities have done little to break up the
demonstration, which came after Estonian authorities removed the
bronze memorial to Soviet Red Army soldiers from central Tallinn
for relocation at a military cemetery.


"We are afraid that if we break up the demonstration, there will
be massive protests against Estonia involving millions of people
around Russia," Nikolai Kovalyov, who led a delegation of Russian
lawmakers to Estonia on a two-day fact-finding mission into the
monument's removal, told a press conference.


"There are some provocators outside the embassy in Moscow, but I
can assure you there is no danger to the embassy or the people
inside," he told reporters in Tallinn.


Nearly two dozen Estonians are blocked inside the embassy,
officials have said.


The pro-Kremlin group Ours issued a statement later Tuesday
saying it was "ready to tear down the fascist Estonian embassy."


The removal of the Bronze Soldier statue sparked two days of
rioting in Tallinn, during which thousands of people, most of
them members of Estonia's large ethnic Russian minority, rampaged
through the streets on a spree of vandalism and looting.


It also sent relations between Moscow and Tallinn plummeting to
an all-time low since this Baltic state regained independence
from the Soviet Union in 1991.


Russians see the Bronze Soldier as a sacred memorial to Soviet
soldiers who fought against fascism during World War II, while to
Estonians it symbolises 50 years of Soviet occupation, which
ended in 1991.

