

The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, both of which
Venezuela is set to leave, were created more than 60 years ago to
help the smooth running of the world economy and the fight
against poverty.


Dominated since their conception by the United States and Europe,
the organisations are regularly criticised.


The IMF


Created, as was the World Bank, at the Bretton Woods meeting in
the United States in 1944 and given a mission to guarantee
stability in the world financial system after the conclusion of
World War II.


In the last 30 years, the main responsibility of the IMF has been
as a "lender of last resort" to countries experiencing financial
difficulties, but it also monitors the currency market and
government finances as well as giving technical advice.


However, owing to strong economic growth in the last few years,
many borrowers have been able to repay their debts and have begun
to ignore the institution.


This has led to questions about the future need for the
Washington-based organisation, which has 185 member countries,
and has deprived it of income from interest payments on its
loans.


The IMF is therefore in search of a new role, but is viewed with
suspicion by emerging countries, many of which have relied on the
IMF at some point, and is reviled by the anti-globalisation
movement.


Loans from the IMF are normally on condition of "structural
adjustment programs" which can include unpopular policies such as
cutting state subsidies, raising taxes or devaluing the national
currency.


Emerging countries want better representation in the IMF and a
modest reform effort has begun.


The World Bank


Set up as a body to help fight poverty throughout the world, its
detractors criticise its bureaucratic structure, its perceived
bias in favour of Washington and its liberal economic agenda.


The World Bank loaned 20.1 billion dollars (14.7 billion euros)
last year to finance 245 projects worldwide.


The International Development Association, the World Bank finance
arm to help the poorest countries, makes loans over 30-40 years
with no interest charges and a 10-year grace period for
repayments.


The IDA funds come from the 40 richest World Bank members which
make donations every four years.


The lending unit for other countries is known as the
International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).


The World Bank has been criticised for allowing emerging
countries to go deeper into debt and then making profits from
their interest repayments.


Its president since June 2005, Paul Wolfowitz, currently faces
charges that he improperly pushed a generous bank pay deal for
his girlfriend.

