

Turkish shares and the currency extended their losses on Tuesday
amid a political crisis over presidential elections that has set
the Islamist-rooted government against the army.


The national index of the Istanbul stock exchange lost 1,454
points, or 3.23 percent, closing the day at 43,529.5 points. The
index had shed 4.0 percent on Monday.


The lira traded at about 1.378 against the dollar, losing 0.7
percent of its value since Monday.


The fall came as investors anxiously weighed the implications of
an expected ruling by the country's top court on a first round of
voting in the presidential election in which Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, a former Islamist, is the sole candidate.


The main opposition has asked the Constitutional Court to annul
Friday's vote in which Gul narrowly missed becoming the next head
of state.


If the court rejects the demand, presidential elections will move
forward  with a second round of voting on Wednesday and Gul is
all but certain to be elected in the third round on May 9.


"The persistance of Gul's candidacy will plunge Turkey into
greater tensions. That is our short-term concern," Saruhan Dogan,
chief economist at Finansbank, told the CNN-Turk news channel.


The staunchly secularist Turkish army issued an unusually strong
statement after Friday's vote, accusing the government of failing
to prevent rising Islamist activities and threatening to step in
to protect the secular order.


If the court cancels Friday's round of voting, early elections
could be called within three months.


Dogan said investors viewed early elections as a "life ring," but
were concerned that the polls could jeopardise five years of
political stability in the high- growth country.


Ugur Yilmaz, deputy head of Baskent Securities, agreed, stressing
that both possibilities for the court ruling were unnerving for
investors.


"There is no rosy scenario left. Money is frightened," he said,
adding that foreigners were particularly selling bank shares.


If the presidential vote goes ahead, he explained, "political
tensions will further rise" in an atmopshere where Gul's
candidacy is unwelcome by the military and has sparked mass
protests by secular Turks.


If the vote is disrupted and early elections called, investors
worry that the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) may
lose support and Turkey could go back to the era of fragile
coalition governments, he said.


Recent polls have tipped the AKP to come out first in general
elections, currently set for November 4.


Since coming to power in 2002, the AKP led Turkey to a
spectacular economic recovery from its worst recession in years,
attracted record foreign investment and slashed chronic
inflation.


But the current crisis has changed the picture.


"The AKP, which promotes itself as a centre-right party, has
suddenly turned into a radical party which clashes with the basic
institutions of the republic," Dogan said. "This could affect the
party's votes in elections."


Political stability is key to financial markets who believe a
strong government will keep Turkey on track to carry out economic
and political reforms demanded by the International Monetary Fund
and the European Union, which Ankara is seeking to join.

