

Zimbabwe's main labour union on Tuesday demanded higher wages for
workers living below the poverty line and vowed to stage mass
protests if President Robert Mugabe's government did not heed
their call.


"We are demanding a poverty-datum-line-linked salary across the
board even for the police and soldiers who beat us up when we
demand higher wages," the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions
(ZCTU) president Lovemore Matombo told hundreds who attended a
May Day rally at a Harare football stadium.


Zimbabwe been in the throes of an economic crisis for seven years
characterised by world-record inflation, joblessness hovering
over 80 percent and chronic shortages of foreign currency, fuel
and cooking oil.


"We are also demanding free access to ARVs (anti-AIDS drugs)
without political interference to those who need them and that
the government give shares to workers in mines to be given to
local investors under the indigenisation programme," Matombo
said.


"We are going to sit down with government and employers and if we
don't come to a consensus workers will take to the streets," he
added.


Although he did not give a deadline for the talks, Matombo said
that workers' demands should be addressed within three months.


The labour body also demanded the repeal of the country's tough
media and security laws.


Poor families in Zimbabwe have resorted to striking ingredients
like milk and jam off their shopping lists, skipping meals and
walking long distances to work in order to stretch their income
to the next pay day.


The government blames the crisis on sanctions imposed on 83-year-
old Mugabe and members of his inner circle by the European Union
and the United States following presidential elections in 2002
which the main opposition and western observers charged were
rigged.


Previous street protests organised by the labour union over the
mounting economic crisis have been crushed by security forces.


A two-day strike called by the ZCTU early last month over the
deepening economic crisis received a cool response from workers
who said they could ill-afford to forfeit part of their pay or
risk losing their jobs.

