

Iraqi authorities are investigating reports that the alleged
leader of Al-Qaeda in Iraq, Abu Ayyub al-Masri, was killed on
Tuesday during clashes within his own group, the interior
ministry said.


The US military could not confirm the claim, and Iraqi officials
admitted they had not yet laid hands on the slain militant's
corpse.


"There is intelligence information. Some information, you know,
needs confirmation, but this information is very strong,"
interior ministry operations director Brigadier General Abdel
Karim Khalaf said.


"There were clashes within the groups of Al-Qaeda. He was
liquidated by them. Our forces had nothing to do with it," he
added.


"It was an ambush by his rivals which culminated in clashes," he
said, in an interview with state television. "Interior ministry
sources saw the killing of this criminal."


Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh confirmed that the
report was being examined, but cautioned: "This intelligence
still has to be checked by giving the body to people who can
identify him.


"When we get the body, its DNA must be verified, but the body is
still not in the hands of Iraqi forces. There are now attempts by
the Iraqi forces to get the body," he said, also speaking on
state television.


US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Chris Garver could not
confirm the report and noted that several previous reports of
Masri's death had proved unfounded.


"I hope it is true," he told AFP. "Because of misreporting about
the fate of senior leaders in the past -- we seem to capture or
kill al-Masri about every month -- we are going to be doubly sure
before we attempt to confirm or deny anything."


The leader of the armed wing of an alliance of Sunni tribes set
up to fight Al- Qaeda said Masri had been killed by an insurgent
faction which has decided to change sides and join the forces
fighting Al-Qaeda.


"There are divisions between the different armed groups, but not
inside Al- Qaeda," said Sheikh Hamid al-Hayis, head of the Anbar
Salvation Council.


"There are armed groups that fight with the Salvation Council
against Al-Qaeda, we'll announce their names soon," he added,
also speaking on Iraqiya state television.


US officials say Masri, who is allegedly also known as Abu Hamza
al-Muhajir, is an Egyptian car bomb specialist who heads Al-
Qaeda's Iraq's subsidiary. The US State Department has put a one
million dollar bounty on his head.


Khalaf said Masri had been killed in the Nibae area near Taji, a
town north of the capital that has seen fierce combat between US
forces and Al-Qaeda.


On Tuesday, US forces were again in action near Taji "targeting
senior leaders within the Al-Qaeda in Iraq network", after
killing five militants in overnight fighting, according to a
statement from the military.


Masri's name -- which means Egyptian -- came to world attention
in June 2006 when the US military claimed he had taken over
control of Al-Qaeda in Iraq after his predecessor Abu Musab al-
Zarqawi was killed in a US air strike.


The military describes him as Iraq's premier builder of car
bombs.


Insurgent websites said the new Al-Qaeda leader was in fact Abu
Hamza al- Muhajer, but US spokesman Major General William
Caldwell said at the time that both names refer to the same
person.


Al-Qaeda in Iraq is part of a coalition of Sunni insurgent
factions, the so- called Islamic State of Iraq, which is run by
Iraqi militant Abu Omar al- Baghdadi, described in militant
literature as more powerful than Masri.


Zarqawi's death was hailed as a major victory by the United
States and the Iraqi government, but Al-Qaeda quickly reorganised
and its brutal campaign of bombings has continued unabated.


Car bombs of the type mastered by Masri still explode in Baghdad
almost daily, slaying dozens of Shiite civilians and feeding a
vicious circle of sectarian revenge attacks that has made Iraq
virtually ungovernable.


For the past 10 weeks, tens of thousands of Iraqi and US troops
have poured into Baghdad in a massive security sweep, but still
the carnage continues. At least 25 Iraqis were killed on Tuesday
in insurgent attacks.


Reports of Masri's death surfaced four years to the day since US
President George W. Bush announced the end of major combat
operations in Iraq on board an aircraft carrier.

