

Under fire from Democrats, US President George W. Bush on Tuesday
prepared to veto an Iraq withdrawal timeline four years after he
declared "victory" under a giant "Mission Accomplished" banner.


Bush, an unpopular president fighting an unpopular war, was set
to formally reject legislation that ties emergency war funding to
the start of a pullout of US combat troops by October. The bill
could reach him later in the day.


Democratic congressional leaders planned to take the final formal
steps of sending the bill to Bush at a 1900 GMT press conference,
a move clearly timed to coincide with the anniversary of Bush's
May 1, 2003 speech.


That was when Bush reveled in a carefully staged photo-
opportunity aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier,
where he trumpeted the fall of Baghdad and declared that "major
combat operations in Iraq have ended."


"The battle of Iraq is one victory in a war on terror that began
on September the 11, 2001," with the attacks on New York and
Washington, Bush declared, a giant "Mission Accomplished" banner
hanging behind him.


When he spoke, just 139 US soldiers had been killed since the US-
led invasion launched in March 2003. But more than 3,000 have
died in Iraq since then, and April has been the bloodiest month
of 2007 with 104 killed.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters that it was
not yet clear what time Bush would receive the legislation, but a
veto as early as Tuesday was "within the realm of possibility,
sure."


Sending Bush the legislation on the anniversary of the photo-
opportunity "is a trumped-up political stunt that is the height
of cynicism and it's very disturbing," charged Perino.


As Bush visited the military command in Florida in charge of the
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, Democrats, including the party's
leading 2008 presidential hopefuls, pounded him over his Iraq
strategy and most urged him to sign the legislation.


"We are now one signature away from ending this war," Senator
Barack Obama said in a statement, urging Bush to "avoid making
another tragic mistake by signing the bill that will end this war
and bring our troops home."


"All the photo ops in the world can't hide the truth - his
disastrous mismanagement of the war has left our troops in harm's
way and made Iraq a breeding ground for terrorists, "said former
senator John Edwards.


"When Bush vetoes the bill, Congress should send him another bill
with a timetable for withdrawal and if he vetoes that one,
Congress should send him another and another until we end this
war and bring our troops home," he added.


Senator Hillary Clinton branded Bush's 2003 speech "one of the
most shameful episodes in American history" but did not encourage
him to sign the legislation.


"America is ready for a president who will respect our armed
forces by properly planning for the missions we ask our troops to
undertake. America is ready to end this war and when I am
president, that's exactly what I'll do," she said.


It was unclear what would follow the veto -- Bush's second in six
years in office, the other striking down legislation favoring
embryonic stem stell research -- because Democrats lack the votes
to override the president.


Bush has said he wants to work with Democrats to get much-needed
monies to the US military, but has not publicly signalled that he
is ready to compromise.


Democrats face intense pressure from their core supporters --
crucial in any presidential election -- to cut off funding for
the unpopular war, and a majority of the US public favors efforts
to bring US troops home quickly.

