

Richard Gasquet continued his early-season progress on clay as he
defeated Max Mirnyi 6-3, 6-3 on Tuesday to move into the second
round of the Estoril Open.


The French youngster beat the big Belarussian for the second time
after winning the Nottingham title on grass against the East
European two years ago.


Gasquet began his Roland Garros tune-up campaign with a Monte
Carlo quarter- final last month, falling to Spain's Juan Carlos
Ferrero.


He now stands 19-8 this season, reaching the last eight or better
in four tournaments.


The world number 15 moved into a match with Portugal's hero of
the week Frederico Gil, who scored a Monday upset to reach the
second round. The pair have never met.


"It's always tough to play Mirnyi because of his serve," he said
of his opponent, limited to just four aces on a day of heavy
conditions and humidity.


"But I was able to play my game and I'm happy to go through. I'm
pleased with my season on clay so far and I hope to improve.


"In the next match I know I won't be the crowd favourite, but I
will have a job to do against Gil. He is young and talented with
nothing to lose."


Spain's Guillermo Garcia-Lopez dulled the 29th birthday
celebrations for American Michael Russell with a comprehensive
6-1, 6-2 defeat. Second seed Tommy Robredo also turned 26 on the
day.


American veteran Vince Spadea scratched out a win in two hours
over Russian Teimuraz Gabashvili 6-1, 5-7, 6-4 to move into a
second-round challenge against either top seed Nikolay Davydenko
or French qualifier Olivier Patience.


In women's play, it was smooth sailing at the cloudy costal city
for leading seeds.


France's number one Marion Bartoli overwhelmed number 330 Neuza
Silva 6-2, 6-1 while second seed Francesca Schiavone of Italy was
equally untroubled by Croatian Ivana Lisjak 6-1, 7-5.


Caroline Wozniacki, last summer's Wimbledon junior champion,
upset German fourth seed Martina Muller 6-4, 6-0. Italian eighth
seed Flavia Pennetta, a 2006 semi- finalist, beat Spain's Arantxa
Parra Santonja 6-3, 6-1.

