

Rupert Murdoch's media empire, News Corp, launched a takeover bid
Tuesday for the US publishing firm Dow Jones, which owns the Wall
Street Journal newspaper, Dow Jones said.


Dow Jones said in a statement it "has received an unsolicited
proposal from News Corporation to acquire all of the outstanding
shares of Dow Jones common stock and Class B common stock for
60.00 dollars per share in cash, or in a combination of cash and
News Corporation securities."


The offer would be worth some five billion dollars for the
company that publishes the Wall Street Journal and its
international and online editions, and has other media interests
worldwide.


The Dow Jones statement said the board of directions and members
and trustees of the Bancroft family, who hold a majority of
voting shares, "are evaluating the proposal" and added that
"there can be no assurance that this evaluation will lead to any
transaction."


Dow Jones shares were suspended on the New York Stock Exchange
after they rocketed over 57 percent to around 57.28 dollars a
share in the wake of the report.


The takeover, if successful, would give the Australian-born
Murdoch control of a legendary US business daily and its other
assets.


The move comes at a time of turmoil in the newspaper industry,
with circulation slipping as more consumers turn to the Internet
and other media.


A survey this week showed US daily newspaper circulation is down
2.1 percent from a year ago.


Fewer than half of all US adults currently read a daily
newspaper, a far cry from 80.8 percent in 1964.


The Wall Street Journal is the second biggest US daily, and its
circulation edged up slightly over the past year to just over two
million.


Another big news media group, Tribune Co. announced last month it
would go private in a deal giving control of the publisher of the
Chicago Tribune to real estate mogul Sam Zell.


Last year, Knight-Ridder Newspapers was bought out and broken
into several pieces, placing prestigious dailies such as the
Miami Herald and Philadelphia Inquirer under new ownership.


Elsewhere in the media sector, Readers' Digest was sold to a
private equity firm for 2.4 billion dollars. And reports have
been swirling that other papers, including the Boston Globe,
owned by the New York Times, might be up for sale.

