

Nigerian militants on Tuesday seized six foreign oil workers,
including four Italians, from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil-rich south and warned of further
kidnappings to come.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) claimed responsibility for
the attack, saying it was intended to shame the government of
outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is stepping down after
serving two terms.


"We promised to give the present Nigerian administration a
shameful send-off. This attack is one in a series intended to
embarrass the ... regime," a MEND spokesman said in an email.


"It is also a warning to the incoming government which we view as
an extension of the present. We will continue with our struggle
for justice until we achieve all our goals without exception," he
said.


MEND identified the hostages as US national John Stapleton,
Croatian Juricha Ruic and Raffele Pascariello, Alfonso Frawza,
Ignazio Gugliota and Mario Celetano, all from Italy.


Chevron Nigeria Ltd, a subsidiary of the US oil giant, said its
storage vessel was attacked at 5:00am (0400 GMT).


"The attackers forced their way on to the facility and kidnapped
six expatriate employees. In the attack, government security
forces suffered casualties," it added.


Sources close to the Nigerian navy said one naval personnel was
killed and three wounded.


The MEND claims to be fighting for a larger local share of
Nigeria's oil bounty.


The spokesman's e-mail said the hostages would be released
unconditonally a month from now, as long as no effort was made to
secure their release. It also warned of future attacks on Shell
facilities in the region.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, accounting for
a daily output of some 2.6 million barrels.


In a separate incident on Monday evening in neighbouring Rivers
state, the mother of the governor-elect Celestine Omehia was
kidnapped by an unknown militant group, a Rivers government
spokesman said Tuesday.


"The mother of the new governor was abducted last night in her
Ubima village, near Port Harcourt," Emmanuel Okah told AFP.


The Niger Oil Delta, a swathe of creeks and swamps and the size
of Scotland, is home to Nigeria's multi-billion dollar oil and
gas industry.


The region has seen a resurgence in violent attacks on oil firms
and personnel over the past two years.


More than 100 foreign workers have been kidnapped, but were later
released, while scores of Nigerian security personnel have been
killed by militant groups or armed gangsters.

