

Thailand's army-backed premier has decided to grant amnesty to
suspected Islamic rebels in the country's Muslim-majority south,
the government said Tuesday in its bid to rein in unrest in the
region.


Surayud Chulanont conveyed his decision to Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu,
the head of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the
world's largest grouping of Muslim nations, during a meeting
here, the Thai foreign ministry said.


"The government will propose to parliament that amnesty be
granted to all persons who have been involved in the ongoing
violence" in the south, the ministry said in a statement. No
further details were given.


The amnesty aims to ease the violence in the region, which
borders Malaysia.


Unrest there has escalated in the last six months despite peace-
building initiatives by Surayud, including an apology to Muslims
over past government abuses.


More than 2,100 people have been killed during three years of
unrest in area.


Ihsanoglu welcomed the amnesty initiative, saying the OIC was
ready to help Thailand in achieving peace.


"The OIC delegation reaffirmed their support for the prime
minister's conciliatory gesture and policies towards the Thai
Muslim community," he told reporters.


Ihsanoglu also said a series of confidence building measures by
Surayud would "pave the way for a sustainable and peaceful
solution" to the long-running violence.


The amnesty was proposed by Lieutenant General Viroach
Buacharoon, the top commander in the restive south, when Surayud,
a former general, visited the region last month.


While pursuing peaceful measures, Surayud's government, which
came to power after a coup in September last year, also plans to
reinforce troops in the region in a bid to boost security.


Some 30,000 troops are already stationed in the three restive
southern provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani, and local
reports have said the army will send an extra 15,000 soldiers.


The three Muslim-majority provinces were once an autonomous
sultanate, until the region was annexed by mainly Buddhist
Thailand a century ago. Separatist unrest has erupted
periodically ever since.

