

At least 30 civilians, including women and children, were among
the dead after clashes in western Afghanistan that the US-led
coalition claimed had killed 136 Taliban, police said Tuesday.


The fighting erupted in Herat province's Shindand district on
Friday and on Sunday.


"There were at least 30 civilians including women and children
among those killed in Shindand's fighting," Herat police chief
Mohammad Shafiq Fazli told AFP.


He said his information was based on "reports from various
sources" from the area. Fazli gave no further details.


Shindand governor Khodadad Erfani also said there were civilians
among the dead, "but we dont have the number."


The coalition said Monday its special forces, accompanied by
police and other coalition members, attacked Taliban fighting
positions in Shindand's Zerkoh Valley on Sunday with ground force
and strikes from the air.


"A total of seven enemy positions were destroyed, and 87 Taliban
fighters were killed during the 14-hour engagement," it said.


Two days earlier more than 70 fighters had attacked a US Special
Forces and Afghan police unit on a night-time patrol in the area.
The security forces retaliated with ground and air fire, killing
49 Taliban, it said.


A US soldier was also killed. His death was announced Friday.


More than 1,000 people took to the streets in Shindand Monday in
an angry protest, alleging there were heavy civilian casualties
in the days of fighting.


They stoned and torched the offices of the Shindand district
governor and police chief, locals told AFP.


"The people they have killed are not Taliban, they are civilians.
They have killed civilians, including children," one demonstrator
told AFP Monday, without giving his name. "We don't want the
Americans in our area."


Parliamentarians expressed anger Monday at mounting civilian
deaths in military operations against Taliban insurgents,
including by the US-led coalition which invaded Afghanistan and
toppled the Taliban regime in 2001.


They demanded the formation of commissions to travel to affected
areas to investigate, parliamentary media officer Haseeb Noori
told AFP.

