

Afghan and foreign troops said Tuesday scores of rebels were
killed in new action against Taliban militants, while concerns
grew about a coalition-led operation that police said killed 30
civilians.


Up to 56 fighters were killed on Monday, the first day of a new
NATO-led sweep through a Taliban stronghold in the southern
province of Helmand, Afghanistan's top opium-producing area, an
Afghan commander told AFP Tuesday.


NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) would only
say "a significant number of insurgents" were killed in the
operation in Helmand's Sangin Valley.


"We've killed up to 56 Taliban, including lots of Pakistanis,"
Afghan army General Moheydin Ghori told AFP over the telephone
from the area.


The bodies of the dead had been left at the site, he said. A
handful fighters were arrested.


Some 2,000 troops are involved in the new sweep, which is part of
Operation Achilles, a major offensive in Helmand and the biggest
ISAF operation this year.


Operation Achilles, launched early March, involves some 5,500
soldiers.


Local and international forces are trying to "create security
conditions in the Sangin Valley so that meaningful reconstruction
and development can occur," said an ISAF spokesman.


Separately, four insurgents were killed in an air raid in
response to an attack by a dozen militants late Monday on the
administration office of eastern Khost province's Spera district,
the US-led coalition said.


Also in Khost, 11 suspected Taliban militants with links to Osama
bin Laden's Al-Qaeda network were seized in a "joint operation"
by Afghan and ISAF troops, provincial governor Arsala Jamal told
AFP.


The new claims of success against the Taliban, which ruled
Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001, came as police in the western
province of Herat said at least 30 civilians died in clashes at
the weekend that the coalition said killed 136 Taliban.


Hundreds of people had demonstrated in the Shindand district of
the western province of Herat on Monday, after coalition and
Afghan operations there on Friday and Sunday, insisting civilians
were among the victims.


Herat police chief Mohammad Shafiq Fazli told AFP an
investigation had found that "there were at least 30 civilians,
including women and children, among those killed in Shindand's
fighting."


As government and UN teams were sent to the area to investigate
the claims, a spokesman for the US Central Command said it had
received no reports of civilian casualties in the fighting.


"Every precaution is taken to prevent injury to Afghan civilians
during both battles, and no civilian casualties were reported,"
said Major David Small. There were two battles in the Herat
fighting.


"If any reports are made through official channels, they will be
investigated," he said.


In the eastern province of Nangarhar, meanwhile, 500 students
protested against US military action after six people were killed
Sunday.


The demonstrators, who burned an effigy of US President George W.
Bush, said all six were civilians. The coalition has said four
were militants and that a woman and a teenager were killed in
crossfire.


In other violence linked to the growing Taliban insurgency,
Afghan police in the southeastern province of Paktia escaped a
suicide attack unhurt, the provincial governor said.


The attacker tried to jump onto a police vehicle before blowing
himself up but instead "became the victim of his ill-attempts,"
governor Rahmatullah Rahmat told AFP.


In the southern province of Kandahar, Taliban militants beheaded
an 18-year-old policeman returning to duty from his holidays,
local governor Niaz Mohammad Sarhadi said.


The young man had "confessed he was spying for the government,"
said Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi.

