

Focussing solely on AC Milan's Brazilian playmaker Kaka could
prove fatal said Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson on
the eve of their Champions League semifinal second leg clash.


United lead the clash 3-2 after a thrilling encounter at Old
Trafford - Kaka scoring Milan's goals while Wayne Rooney got two
of United's - but Ferguson was at pains to point out the Italian
side possessed other dangers.


"Kaka played really well in Manchester, but we must pay attention
to all the Milan players," said the veteran handler.


Ferguson's mantra was echoed by his Ireland international
defender John O'Shea.


"We must not commit the error of focussing solely on Kaka," said
O'Shea, who was on the scoresheet last Saturday when United all
but sealed the Premiership title in beating Everton 4-2.


"He is an outstanding player, but if we think about him too much,
there will be other Milan players who will take advantage."


Ferguson was bullish about his side holding on, ensuring an all
England final in Athens later this month against either Liverpool
or Chelsea, in contrast to two years ago when they lost 2-0 on
aggregate (1-0 in both legs) to AC Milan in the knockout stages.


"This time we have a better chance at the San Siro than in 2005.


"I am more optimistic."


Ferguson said that United would have to be at their most focussed
and determined if they were to prevail.


"I agree with Carlo Ancelotti (AC Milan coach)," said the feisty
Scot.


"We will have to be at our best both in terms of concentration
and determination for 90 minutes.


"The players will have to conserve their energy and get good
possession so we can keep our advantage."


Ferguson admitted it was a concern for him that he had three
pivotal players on yellow cards - Cristiano Ronaldo, Paul Scholes
and Gabriel Heinze - meaning another booking and they would miss
the final just as happened to Scholes and his then team-mate Roy
Keane in the 1999 semi-final.


"It is a delicate situation but I can't ask them not to tackle,"
said Ferguson.


"We do have three important players on yellow cards but it is the
same thing for Milan with Paolo Maldini.


"Nobody wants to miss the final, everybody wants to play in it.


"However I have confidence in the refereeing and the
sportsmanship of the players."

