

Chelsea striker Andriy Shevchenko has been ruled out of Tuesday's
Champions League semi-final second leg at Liverpool.


The Ukraine international has not travelled with the squad and
joins Ricardo Carvalho and Michael Ballack on the sidelines.


Chelsea denied that Shevchenko had refused to travel with the
rest of the team.


Reports suggested there had been a rift between the player and
the club but Chelsea have moved swiftly to deny there was any
problem.


"Contrary to media reports this morning, Andriy Shevchenko did
not refuse to travel with the team to Liverpool," the club said.


"He suffered an injury during training on Sunday and it was
decided after training that he was not fit to play against
Liverpool and therefore, like other injured players, did not
travel."


Shevchenko also confirmed that he was injured, expressing his
disappointment at being unavailable.


"I am really sorry to miss the match and can't be with the team
to help and support them in what must be one of the most
important games in Chelsea's history.


"I will remain in London and work hard on my rehabilitation to
ensure I can make myself available as soon as possible."


Arjen Robben has been included in the squad after making a
quicker-than-expected recovery from knee ligament damage.


Midfielder Michael Essien is available after a one-match European
ban, Carvalho is ruled out with a knee problem, which could see
Essien partnering John Terry at centre-back, while Ballack has
had an ankle operation which will rule him out for at least 10
days.


Didier Drogba is one yellow card away from missing a potential
final in Athens if Chelsea can hold onto their first-leg lead,
while it is expected that Khalid Boulahrouz could come into
defence.


Liverpool expect to have full-back Steve Finnan back following a
neck injury for the clash.


Finnan has missed the last four matches, although on Saturday at
Portsmouth he was officially rested as boss Rafael Benitez made
seven changes from the side which lost at Stamford Bridge in the
first leg.


Those seven - Jose Reina, Daniel Agger, Jamie Carragher, Steven
Gerrard, Javier Mascherano, Dirk Kuyt and John Arne Riise - all
look certain to start, while Benitez will also consider using
Peter Crouch in the starting XI.

