

A visiting Russian delegation accused the Estonian authorities on
Tuesday of torture during riots last week in the Baltic capital
sparked by the removal of a Soviet war memorial.


The lawmakers from the Russian Duma visited the new location of
the monument before making their way to a warehouse near
Tallinn's port where hundreds were detained during the riots that
injured 150 and left one Russian citizen dead.


"Many NGOs and journalists have told us that many people were
subjected terrible torture after the events of April 27 and 28,"
said Leonid Slutsky, one of the leaders of the Russian
delegation.


"It's not difficult to imagine because 1,200 people were detained
and packed in here, in building 19-6," he said outside the
warehouse complex. "This is unacceptable in a member country of
the Council of Europe."


There was no immediate reaction from the Estonians and no
evidence provided by the Russian delegation to back up their
allegations, the latest in a line of accusations fired since
their arrival on Monday.


Police said some 800 people were detained in the riots, which saw
gangs of youths rampage through Tallinn, smashing the windows of
the Art Academy, breaking into the National Theatre and looting
shops.


The Estonians unearthed Monday 12 coffins at the old site of the
statue, prompting the Russian delegation to accuse them of
"betraying the memory of the war dead" by using heavy machinery
to dig up the bodies of Soviet soldiers.


The Estonians, who see the Bronze Soldier is a painful reminder
of 50 years of Soviet occupation, angrily countered the Russian
attack, calling it "absolutely insulting".


Russians, including a substantial minority in Estonia, see it as
a memorial to Red Army soldiers who died driving the Nazis out of
the Baltic states in World War II.


At the main military cemetery in Estonia, where the Bronze
Soldier was re- erected, the Russian delegation early Tuesday
laid wreathes and lit candles to the memory of the millions of
Soviet soldiers who died in World War II.


A woman deputy bowed solemnly as she backed up from the statue,
before a small group of Russian lawmakers studied the statue to
check for any damage.


Slutzky appeared to praise the Estonians for giving the statue
pride of place in its leafy new home, where he noted that it was
intact.


Then he fired off a new accusation, saying Estonia had bent its
own laws to move the statue, which should have stayed put in the
city centre.


"What happened on April 27 to 28 represents the worst violation
of human rights in the history of modern Estonia. This will be
remembered as an error of historic magnitude," he said.


Russia has said the rioting in Tallinn pitted people "defending
the monument" against the police, while Estonian officials have
maintained that the rioters were mere vandals and looters.


Nikolai Kovalyov, head of the visiting Duma delegation, hit out
at the Estonian police on Monday for alleged brutality and for
failing to provide medical assistance he said could have saved
the life of the Russian who died.


He blamed the Estonian government for starting it all by deciding
to move the monument and called for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip
to resign.


"The actions of the Estonian government have turned our bilateral
relations upside down, and this demands a radical interference
from us," he said.


Tensions have also spread beyond this small Baltic state, with
anti-Estonian protests in Ukraine and Russia, where the Estonian
embassy was under siege, with Russian police accused of doing
little to intervene.


The EU has pledged to help end the blockade of the Estonian
embassy in Moscow, where more than 100 youths have been gathered
since Thursday, chanting anti- Estonian slogans, daubing the
walls and blaring loud music 24 hours a day, Estonian Foreign
Mininster Urmas Paet said Tuesday.

