

The major US stock indexes lost their opening momentum Tuesday
amid a fresh bout of profit-taking as investors braced for
monthly sales updates from the big auto manufacturers.


At 1436 GMT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up a slight
5.29 points (0.04 percent) at 13,068.30.


The Nasdaq composite was down 9.37 points (0.37 percent) at
2,515.72 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's 500 index had
lost 3.59 points (0.24 percent) to 1,478.78.


The main indexes had initially opened stronger. But analysts said
a weaker-than- expected report on pending home sales, amid a
wide-ranging housing downturn, had dented optimism.


The National Association of Realtors reported that pending home
sales fell an unexpected 4.9 percent in March, to the lowest
level in four years, against Wall Street expectations for a 0.4
percent gain.


Investors were locking in gains after record highs for the Dow
index last week amid strong run for Wall Street over several
weeks.


"The market hit some significant profit-taking yesterday," said
Dick Green, a president at Briefing.com.


"Today is the first day of May, the traditional start of the slow
summer period. It is too early to assume that the market momentum
has now gone, but it is worth watching," Green said following the
market's strong bull run last week.


Some analysts do not expect any market down dips to be too
extended.


"Given the huge amount of cash still sitting on the sidelines, we
don't expect the pullback to last long," said Frederic Dickson, a
chief market strategist at DA Davidson & Co.


"Earnings reports ramp up today. We continue to believe that good
earnings reports from those companies due to report over the next
two weeks will lift stock prices further, although we now expect
to see more profit-taking when the major market indices nudge
above recent set record price levels," Dickson said.


Auto shares were likely to be in focus as US giants General
Motors, Ford and Chrysler are due to release their monthly sales
figures, with the market also awaiting updates from Asian rivals
Toyota, Honda and European marques such as Mercedes and BMW.


The big US firms are struggling to ward off spiking sales by
Toyota and other Japanese auto groups on their domestic turf.


GM's will post its latest sales days after it losing its position
as the world's biggest automaker for the first time since 1931 to
Toyota.


GM has said it remains focused on turning its fortunes around
after steep financial and market share losses.


The automaker's shares were down five cents at 31.18 dollars.
Ford was down six cents at 7.98 dollars while US-listed shares of
German-US giant DaimlerChrsyler were 30 cents lower at 80.21
dollars.


Bond prices rose as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
dropped to 4.614 percent from 4.630 percent Monday while that on
the 30-year bond fell to 4.802 percent against 4.817 percent.
Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions.

