

Mali's opposition boycotted a voter validation exercise Tuesday
alleging fraud as early returns from the weekend presidential
elections suggest the incumbent, Amadou Toumani Toure, is
leading.


The Front for Democracy and the Republic (FDR) said it was
walking out on the voter validation process because it was
sidelined from approving results for the capital.


Djiguiba Keita, FDR spokesman told AFP that the coalition was
pulling out because results from six districts of the capital
Bamako were "released without our final authorisation".


Partial results in Bamako, where the opposition was expected to
make a strong showing, showed Toure ahead of his closest rival,
opposition candidate Ibrahim Boubacar Keita.


The FDR spokesman said opposition officials only validated one of
the two stages of the Bamako results.


"Consequently, the FDR is definitely pulling out because we are
not party to the results which have been proclaimed," said Keita.


The FDR, a coalition of 16 parties which fielded four candidates,
including ex- prime minister Ibrahim Keita, has dismissed the
entire vote as a sham.


Full results are expected on Wednesday or Thursday, but well
before first returns were released Toure's spokesman Hassan Barry
claimed he had overwhelmingly won a second five-year term.


Alleging sweeping irregularities in the poll in a country praised
for its significant democratic strides over the past 15 years,
the opposition said it will not accept the poll outcome.


"The election was all but free, sincere and transparent.
Consequently, the FDR is not going to recognise the results
arising from such a mascarade," it said.


It "was tarnished by gross irregularities which undermine the
sincerity, the seriousness and the transparency of the election,"
said FDR in a statement.


Among the irregularities cited by the FDR included multiple
voting and intimidation of voters.


It also said there were ballot papers bearing no serial numbers
or security watermarks, adding ballot papers had been printed by
a company run by Toure's close sympathiser.


Observers from the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and OIF, the organisation of French speaking countries,
however cleared the vote as clean.


Despite "some insufficiencies noted here and there," ECOWAS team
head and former Togolese prime minister Koffi Sama, said the poll
was overall "free, fair and credible."


The opposition assertions are likely to deal a blow to the
political consensus the vast west African country long praised
for its democracy, has enjoyed for the past 15 years.


Toure is a former general who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in
1991 and installed a multi-party system before stepping aside in
1992.


He later stood for presidential elections and won easily in 2002.


The 58-year-old does not have a political party but enjoys the
backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small parties.


Eight candidates had been vying for the top job in one of
Africa's most impoverished countries, in elections that were
expected to have consolidated the significant democratic strides
achieved in the past 15 years.

