

John Browne, chief executive of British energy giant BP,
unexpectedly resigned Tuesday after a newspaper group won a legal
battle to publish details of his relationship with another man.


Browne was due to retire in July after 12 years at the helm of
the group he has helped transform into the world's third-biggest
energy group -- but was Tuesday replaced by his chosen successor
Tony Hayward, BP said in a statement.


"Browne tendered his resignation after the lifting by the UK
courts of a legal injunction preventing a newspaper group from
publishing details of his private life," the group said.


BP chairman Peter Sutherland described Browne's decision to quit
as a "tragedy."


Browne, 59, revealed in the statement that in initial witness
statements, he had lied about how he met Canadian Jeff Chevalier,
his former partner of four years.


"This account, prompted by my embarrassment and shock at the
revelations, is a matter of deep regret. It was retracted and
corrected. I have apologised unreservedly, and do so again
today," Browne added.


One British newspaper said on its website that Browne may now
face a charge of perjury, and possibly jail.


Browne's sudden departure comes as BP seeks to restore investor
confidence after a traumatic two years, during which time a fatal
explosion at its Texas City refinery in the United States left 15
people dead.


On Tuesday, the share price in BP closed down 0.44 percent at 563
pence on London's FTSE 100. The capital's leading share index
finished 0.46-percent lower at 6,419.60 points.


BP said that as a result of his decision to resign, Browne would
lose his entitlement to a leaving package worth 3.5 million
pounds (5.15 million euros, 7.0 million dollars) and a potential
12 million pounds worth of shares.


Browne failed to prevent Associated Newspapers publishing a story
about his relationship with Chevalier.


"In my 41 years with BP I have kept my private life separate from
my business life," Browne said in the BP statement.


"I have always regarded my sexuality as a personal matter, to be
kept private. It is a matter of deep disappointment that a
newspaper group has now decided that allegations about my
personal life should be made public.


"Concerning the court documents disclosed today, I wish to
acknowledge that I did have a four-year relationship with Jeff
Chevalier who has now chosen to tell his story to Associated
Newspapers, publishers of The Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and
Evening Standard.


"These allegations are full of misleading and erroneous claims.
In particular, I deny categorically any allegations of improper
conduct relating to BP," Browne added.


Browne had announced in January that he planned to quit in July,
nearly 18 months ahead of schedule. Some analysts had blamed that
change on BP's recent troubles, highlighted by the Texas City
incident in 2005.


Last year, meanwhile, the group was forced into a partial
shutdown of its 400,000-barrel per day Prudhoe Bay field in
Alaska following a leak in poorly maintained pipelines.


BP is struggling also to reverse a slide to its energy
production. Last week it reported the seventh successive fall in
quarterly output, alongside a 17-percent drop in first-quarter
net earnings despite strong oil prices.


With BP experiencing slowing output the group had announced in
January that Hayward, its head of exploration and production
business, would be replacing Browne.


BP's chief executive still leaves as a widely-respected boss
after transforming the oil and gas group from a struggling
organisation into one of the world's biggest oil companies in
terms of stock market capitalisation.


"For a chief executive who has made such an enormous contribution
to this great company, it is a tragedy that he should be
compelled by his sense of honour to resign in these painful
circumstances," Sutherland said Tuesday.


In January, Browne was named as Britain's most impressive
businessman for the seventh time in eight years by a survey of
his peers.

