

Russia's Elena Dementieva was stretched to the limit before
overcoming American Meilen Tu 6-7 (7/5), 6-0, 7-5 in the first
round of the J and S Cup here on Tuesday.


The number seven seed was playing for the first time since
suffering a rib stress fracture in February, and she had to deal
with a resilient opponent who recovered from a disastrous second
set to serve for victory in the third.


Neither player was helped by near-freezing conditions, and there
were even snow flurries during the third set.


"It was extremely difficult conditions," said Dementieva, who
faced defeat when Tu served for the match at 5-4.


"It was freezing out there and I've never played with snow in my
life. There were ups and downs, but I'm glad I was able to go
through a difficult match and difficult moments and win in the
end.


"It was a very tough match for me, especially after such a long
break. I was really nervous in the beginning and it will take a
couple of tournaments to get back my confidence."


Dementieva suffered her injury while undergoing some rigorous
fitness training, and while away from the game she thought about
whether or not she wanted to continue her career.


"I couldn't really do anything and it was time for me to think
what I want to do in my life and did I want to come back or do
something else," she said.


"I'm not that young. I'm 25 years old, and when something like
that happens it's really difficult to start practising after not
playing for six weeks. I lost almost everything.


"For me it was like starting at the beginning, playing against
the wall on my first practice. It was really difficult."


She has warned off other players who were considering using the
same physical trainer, who she believed worked her too hard and
took no notice of her reservations about his methods.


"When I realised (what had happened) I talked to all the other
players who were thinking of working with this guy, because he's
very popular in Russia," she said.


"I just told them my story because I don't want anyone else to
have the same experience as I did."


Dementieva may now face unseeded Venus Williams, but the
American's match against Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands
was postponed until Wednesday as other matches on centre court
ran long.


Among other first round matches, qualifier Julia Vakulenko of
Ukraine earned a meeting with defending champion and number two
seed Kim Clijsters by beating Russian Elena Likhovtseva 6-4, 6-1,
and Germany's Anna-Lena Groenefeld defeated Estonia's Kaia Kanepi
6-2, 6-4 to set up a clash with top seed Justine Henin.

