

John Browne, chief executive of British energy giant BP,
unexpectedly resigned Tuesday after a newspaper group won a legal
battle to publish details of his relationship with another man.


Browne had been due to retire in July after 12 years at the helm
of Europe's biggest energy group -- but will now be replaced
immediately by his chosen successor Tony Hayward, BP said in a
statement.


"Browne tendered his resignation after the lifting by the UK
courts of a legal injunction preventing a newspaper group from
publishing details of his private life," the group said.


BP added that as a result of Browne's decision to resign, he
would lose his entitlement to a leaving package worth 3.5 million
pounds (5.15 million euros, 7.0 million dollars) and a potential
12 million pounds worth of shares.


Browne, 59, has failed to prevent Associated Newspapers
publishing a story about his relationship with Canadian Jeff
Chevalier, his former partner of four years.


"In my 41 years with BP I have kept my private life separate from
my business life," Browne said in the BP statement.


"I have always regarded my sexuality as a personal matter, to be
kept private. It is a matter of deep disappointment that a
newspaper group has now decided that allegations about my
personal life should be made public.


"Concerning the court documents disclosed today, I wish to
acknowledge that I did have a four-year relationship with Jeff
Chevalier who has now chosen to tell his story to Associated
Newspapers, publishers of The Daily Mail, Mail on Sunday and
Evening Standard.


"These allegations are full of misleading and erroneous claims.
In particular, I deny categorically any allegations of improper
conduct relating to BP," Browne added.


However, Browne added that in initial witness statements, he had
lied about how he had first met Chevalier.


"This account, prompted by my embarrassment and shock at the
revelations, is a matter of deep regret. It was retracted and
corrected. I have apologised unreservedly, and do so again
today," Browne said.

