

Insecurity in Gaza is preventing a rescue operation for a
kidnapped BBC journalist, a top Palestinian security official
said in comments published on Tuesday.


Palestinian security services "know the identity of the party
that kidnapped journalist (Alan) Johnston," Rashid Abu Shbak,
chief of the Palestinian security services, said in an interview
with the Al-Ayyam daily.


"But the security situation in the Gaza Strip does not allow
these services to carry out an operation to free him," he said.


Moreover, "the British government has asked president (Mahmud)
Abbas not to resort to force to free him so as not to put his
life in danger," he said.


Factional violence in Gaza had killed dozens of Palestinians
before the creation of a unity cabinet on March 17 put a lid on
the simmering tensions.


Shbak's interview was published a day after a Palestinian
official confirmed for the first time that authorities had had
contact with those holding Johnston, who was snatched at gunpoint
on March 12 in Gaza City.


Palestinian deputy prime minister Azzam al-Ahmed, meanwhile, said
the kidnappers had conveyed "demands" for Johnston's release but
he specified only that they were of a "political and ideological"
nature.


And he said the kidnappers had stressed that the journalist, who
has been held for more than seven weeks -- far longer than any
other Western hostage in the Gaza Strip -- was in "good" health.


On April 15, a little-known Islamist group claimed in a statement
to have killed him, but Palestinian authorities have said there
was no proof of the claim by the Kataeb al-Jihad al-Tawheed (The
Brigades of Holy War and Unity).


Johnston, 44, was the only Western journalist left working full-
time in the increasingly dangerous Gaza Strip when he was
abducted.


He is the latest of around 20 foreign journalists and aid workers
to be abducted in Gaza over the past year. All of them have so
far been released unharmed, with most used to lever concessions
from the authorities.


Johnston's ordeal has sparked international protests, with
solidarity demonstrations held in Belgium, Egypt, Lebanon and
throughout Britain.

