

BP chief executive John Browne was for over a decade the widely-
respected head of one of the world's biggest oil companies, but
was brought down unexpectedly Tuesday by a legal row over his
private life.


The 59-year-old -- Lord Browne of Madingley to give him his
formal title, since he was made a life peer in 2001 -- won
widespread plaudits for transforming BP from a struggling
organization during his 12-year stewardship.


But little was known about his private life, beyond the fact that
he was unmarried, until a British newspaper won a court battle to
reveal details about his four-year relationship with a Canadian
man.


After his education at Cambridge and Stanford Business School,
Browne joined BP in 1966 as a lowly apprentice, but rapidly
worked his way up through various posts in the United States and
Canada to became CEO for exploration in 1989.


He was named group chief executive in June 1995.


As head of BP, Browne acquired US energy groups Amoco and Arco
during the late 1990s, and created the Russian joint venture TNK-
BP three years ago.


Browne had long been expected to stay on at BP until 2008, when
he will be 60, but in January, the company said he would bow out
18 months ahead of schedule.


The surprise announcement came as Browne faced problems including
the fall-out from a 2005 blast at the Texas City refinery in the
United States, in which 15 people were killed and 180 injured.


A US government probe in March blamed the accident on a lax
safety culture across the board at BP, which cultivated an
environmentally-friendly image under Browne.


He was due to be replaced by Tony Hayward, BP's head of
exploration and production, on August 1. With Tuesday's
announcement, Howard's appointment became immediate.


His resignation was announced after he lost a legal battle to
keep private allegations made by his former partner Jeff
Chevalier, who shared Browne's life for four years.


Browne's tenure saw a five-fold increase in the company's market
capitalisation to 104.6 billion pounds and profits to 22.3
billion dollars. The group's share price has risen more than 250
percent.


In a statement, Browne categorically denied any improper conduct
relating to BP, but voiced regret at the way events had turned
out.


"For the past 41 years of my career at BP, I have kept my private
life separate from my business life. I have always regarded my
sexuality as a personal matter, to be kept private," he said.


"It is a matter of personal disappointment that a newspaper group
has now decided that allegations about my personal life should be
made public."

