

World crude prices steadied on Tuesday in light holiday trade as
investors weighed up another attack in the oil-producing south of
Nigeria where six foreign oil workers have been kidnapped.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
added 38 cents to 68.03 dollars per barrel in electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, fell 16 cents to 65.55 dollars per barrel in US
floor deals.


Trading was quiet on Tuesday with many Asian and European markets
shut owing to the May Day holiday, dealers said.


Those who did carry out deals focused on fresh supply concerns in
Nigeria -- the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter with a daily
output of about 2.6 million barrels.


Nigerian militants Tuesday seized four Italians, a US national
and a Croatian oil worker from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil-rich south and warned of further
kidnappings.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) claimed responsibility for
the attack, saying it was intended to shame the government of
outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is stepping down after
serving two terms.


Michael Davies, an energy analyst at the Sucden brokerage firm,
said:


"This incident has once again highlighted the instability in the
region, with the country's output still below full capacity and
the most recent presidential elections have only made the
situation worse, with foreign observers saying that votes rigging
was commonplace."


Crude futures had meanwhile fallen on Monday due to profit-taking
after sharp gains last week on news of a possible terrorist plot
in key crude producer Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


Prices had surged before the weekend after Saudi Arabia announced
it had foiled an attack on oil facilities, which was linked to
al-Qaeda.


Market attention was meanwhile starting to turn to Wednesday's
upcoming weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles in key
consumer the United States, traders said.


All eyes are on US gasoline or petrol reserves heading into the
peak-demand driving season, which kicks off at the end of May,
when many Americans take to the roads for their summer holidays.

