

Thirty-two people were being questioned by police Tuesday after
raids across England, Belgium and the Netherlands targeting
suspected animal rights extremists.


Hampshire Police in southern England, which co-ordinated the
operation, said about 700 police officers were involved in the
raids at 32 addresses -- 29 in Britain, one in Belgium and two in
the Netherlands.


The force said it was one of the largest operations of its kind
in Britain and that 100,000 pounds (147,000 euros, 200,000
dollars) in cash was seized along with mobile phones and computer
equipment.


Suspects were being questioned at police stations across Britain
on suspicion of burglary, conspiracy to blackmail and offences
against animal research centres.


One of the centres was identified as Huntingdon Life Sciences, in
Cambridgeshire, eastern England, which tests new medicines and
vaccines on animals and has long been the focus of animal rights
activists.


Companies and individuals associated with the facility, including
shareholders of British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline,
have also been targeted.


"It is a very large operation, one of the largest, if not the
largest, police operation that has targeted animal extremism in
the UK," said Assistant Chief Constable Adrian Leppard.


"In recent years, animal rights extremists have conducted
sustained campaigns of harassment and intimidation against the
animal research industry, seeking to achieve their objectives by
creating a climate of fear.


"Although the vast majority of animal rights protesters campaign
lawfully, a small minority seeks to force change through criminal
action."


Last year, British Prime Minister Tony Blair vowed "robust"
action against anyone targeting companies that use animals for
medical research after a spate of increasingly radical action by
anti-vivisectionists.


Contractors at a new biomedical research centre in Oxford,
southern England, have also faced threats, forcing work to stop,
while the owners of a farm that bred guinea pigs for medical
testing suffered a six-year harassment campaign.


It culminated when the body of one of the owners' relatives was
stolen from a graveyard. Four extremists were jailed in May this
year.


In Belgium, a prosecution spokesman confirmed to AFP that a raid
had been carried out in the region of Gent in the west of the
country, but said no arrests had been made.

