

Key shareholders in Dutch bank ABN Amro called on Tuesday for the
group's chairman to be fired for his role in the titanic bidding
war for the company.


The hedge fund TCI made the demand in a letter to ABN Amro's
supervisory board in which it criticises the chairman Rijkman
Groenink for coming down on the side of Barclays, one of two
suitors currently eyeing what would be the biggest banking
acquisition in history.


"We call on the supervisory board to immediately end Mr
Groenink's nomination as chairman of the executive committee,"
the letter said.


"We also call on the supervisory board to take complete control
of the sale process to respond to the clear wishes of
shareholders," it said.


It also criticises him for opposing the carving up of the group,
an approach favoured by a consortium led by the Royal Bank of
Scotland which is keen to buy the Dutch lender.


ABN management has accepted the rival 67-billion-euro offer from
Barclays of Britain and had been holding off the consortium
despite pressure from shareholders.


The bidding group of Royal Bank of Scotland, Spain's Banco
Santander and Dutch- Belgian group Fortis has offered 72 billion
euros (98.4 billion dollars) for ABN Amro, a banking record that
exceeds the proposal by Barclays.


Key ABN Amro shareholders, including TCI, have been pressing
management to negotiate with the consortium and had even
threatened legal action.


"We fear that Mr Groenink has no intention of negotiating in good
faith with the RBS consortium...he has no credibility," TCI said
in the letter.


A takeover of ABN Amro would represent the biggest banking sector
acquisition in history, and create Europe's second-biggest bank,
the fifth biggest in the world.


According to the Dutch press on Tuesday Groenink has asked the
RBS consortium to clarify its offer for ABN Amro, including how
it intends to finance the offer and what will happen to company
employees, clients and its capital.


He also asks how the assets would be carved up under the
consortium's plan, expressing concern at such a separation,
according to unnamed sources quoted by NRC Handelsblad.

