

Press freedom around the world deteriorated last year due to
coups, attempts to stifle political opposition and regulate use
of the Internet, a leading watchdog said in a report Tuesday.


US-based Freedom House outlined what it said were particularly
troubling trends in Asia, the former Soviet Union and Latin
America, in a report that warned that democracy as a whole would
likely suffer.


"Press freedom is like the canary in the coal mine," the group's
executive director Jennifer Windsor said in a statement.


"Assaults on the media are inevitably followed by assaults on
other democratic institutions. The fact that press freedom is in
retreat is a deeply troubling sign that democracy itself will
come under further assault."


The report, released ahead of World Press Freedom Day on
Thursday, said that coups, insurgency and states of emergency in
Thailand, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, the Philippines and Fiji had all
taken their toll on press freedom.


And while Asia had two of the world's most restrictive
governments in North Korea and Myanmar, Freedom House pointed to
recent improvements in Nepal, Cambodia and Indonesia.


China, Vietnam and Iran were meanwhile continuing to jail
journalists and cyber- dissidents, while Russia was aggressively
trying to marginalize the independent media and planning to
regulate use of the Internet, it said.


The study, entitled Freedom of the Press 2007, also noted a
deterioration in Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil either due to
state action or deteriorating security environments.


"The records of Venezuela and Russia are appalling, all the more
so because of those countries' impact on their regions," Karin
Karlekar, managing editor of the press freedom survey, said in a
statement.


The group blamed the decline on coups, drives to neutralize
political opposition, violence against journalists and laws
brought in to enable governments to punish the press for critical
reports.


The group also expressed alarm about the situation in the Middle
East, where recent progress had stagnated, it said. Libya, Syria,
Tunisia and the Palestinian Authority were singled out for their
"extremely restricted" media.


But the organization also noted improvements in countries
including Italy, Nepal, Colombia and Haiti, due to greater
overall political openness and an improved security environment.


The survey, which first appeared in 1980, gives countries a score
out of 100 to reflect restrictions on their media. Iceland and
Finland shared the top spot with nine points, while North Korea
came last with 97.


The survey gave 74 countries out of the 195 included the "free"
rating and 63 the "not free" label. The remainder were considered
"partly free."

