

Turkey's Constitutional Court on Tuesday annulled the first round
of a parliamentary vote for a new president in a move likely to
pave the way for early general elections.


The court ruled that the 550-seat parliament should have convened
with at least 367 deputies -- or the two-thirds majority needed
for a president to be elected in the first round -- for the
voting to have begun, the court's vice president Hasim Kilic told
reporters.


According to parliamentary minutes, 361 lawmakers were present in
the assembly on Friday.


The petition challenging the procedure was filed by the main
opposition party, the social-democratic Republican  People's
Party.


"It is now up to parliament to decide how to proceed," Kilic
said, adding that parliament could begin the election process
anew.


The ruling came amid a tense standoff between the secularist
military and the ruling Islamist-rooted Justice and Development
Party (AKP), whose Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul was the sole
candidate in the presidential election.


The Turkish constitution orders general elections if parliament
fails to elect a president in up to four rounds of voting.
General elections are currently scheduled for November 4.


Justice Minister Cemil Cicek said the ruling party was ready to
call early elections, but made the offer conditional on the
opposition agreeing to a constitutional amendment to lower the
age at which candidates can stand in parliamentary polls.


According to media reports, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan
and his aides have already discussed bringing the November 4
elections forward to soimetime between the end of June and early
August.


Early elections are generally seen as a way out of the current
crisis, which erupted over the prospect of the AKP-dominated
parliament electing a president with an Islamist background.


Secularists say the AKP, the moderate offshoot of a now-banned
Islamist party, is not truly committed to Turkey's fiercely
guarded secular system and Gul's presidency would erode the
separation between state and religion.


Opposition parties, who had been pressing for early elections for
months, boycotted the first-round vote on Friday.


Hours after the balloting, in which Gul fell just 10 votes short
of being elected, the influential Turkish army accused the
government of failing to stop rising Islamism in the country and
warned that it would act to protect the secular system if
necessary.


The extraordinarily harsh statement was widely seen as an
indication that Gul is unwelcome as president.


About one million people demonstrated in Istanbul at the weekend
in favour of secularism and against Gul's presidential ambitions.

