

Thousands of activists were due to march across the United States
on Tuesday to demand immigration reform, but the rallies were
expected to be smaller than last year's huge protests.


Demonstrations were being planned in several major cities --
including Los Angeles, Chicago, New York and Miami -- by a broad
coalition of groups calling for rights for the estimated 12
million illegal workers in the US.


The rallies are being held on the one year anniversary of mass
protests across the country which saw more than one million,
mostly Hispanic, workers stage an unprecedented "economic
boycott" by skipping work for a day.


However, divisions amongst activist groups about the best way to
campaign for reform as well as fear amongst illegal workers
following a series of immigration crackdowns are likely to mean a
lower turnout, activists say.


In Los Angeles, where around 500,000 protestors brought the
city's business district to a standstill last year, organizers
said they expected 100,000 people to attend two separate marches
in downtown.


Flavia Jimenez, an analyst at the National Council of La Raza
(NCLR), the largest non-profit Latino rights organization in the
US which opposes a boycott, said workers were wary of possible
repercussions if they protested.


"There is more fear this time and that is preventing our
community from mobilizing like last year," Jimenez told AFP.


She said workers were reluctant to draw attention to themselves
following immigration raids by authorities.


Although smaller than 12 months ago, the Los Angeles protests
will force the closure of 17 downtown streets and some 60 bus
routes have been changed.


The murder trial of legendary music producer Phil Spector has
also been adjourned for the day.


In Chicago, three separate rallies were expected to converge on
the city's business district at around 12:30 pm (1930 GMT).


A few hundred activists had gathered in Chicago's Union Park
early Tuesday to call for immigration reform.


"It's unjust the dark times we're living in," 42-year-old laborer
Nacho Santos said through an interpreter. "Those of us who are
immigrants are trying to bring the United States back into the
light. Our people have given much to this country and many of
here have come hoping for legalization."


On the east coast, groups rallying under the New York Immigration
Coalition and National May 1st Movement for Worker and Immigrant
Rights were to hold marches to demand a path to citizenship for
all undocumented immigrants.


"We will be creating a family tree to symbolize the struggles of
millions of immigrant families to stay together," the coalition
said in a statement, calling for the government to "stop tearing
families apart!"


The May 1st Movement called for supporters to boycott any form of
economic activity on Tuesday, including shopping, working and
even going to school.


President George W. Bush last month called for an overhaul of
immigration laws by the end of the year. Analysts believe reform
will stall if the issue drags into 2008, as focus turns to the
race for the White House.


Bush's proposals include the creation of a temporary guest worker
program and clearing the way for some undocumented immigrants to
become US citizens, coupled with a series of tougher security
measures.


His ideas have divided his party, with many Republicans saying
they want to see tougher enforcement of border controls and
deriding his guest worker program as an improper "amnesty."


Democrats are generally more receptive, though some with close
ties to US unions worry that immigration puts downward pressure
on wages.

