

Rupert Murdoch's media group News Corp. launched a takeover bid
Tuesday for US publishing firm Dow Jones, which owns the
prominent Wall Street Journal business daily, the two companies
said.


News Corp. said in a statement it made "a friendly offer" to
acquire all of the outstanding shares of Dow Jones for 60 dollars
each in cash, or in a combination of cash and News Corp. stock.


Dow Jones described the action as "an unsolicited proposal" and
said it would study the offer.


The offer would be worth some five billion dollars, or a 63
percent premium to the most recent share price, for the company
that publishes the Wall Street Journal and its international and
online editions, and has other media interests worldwide.


The Dow Jones statement said the board of directions and members
and trustees of the Bancroft family, who hold a majority of
voting shares, "are evaluating the proposal" and added that
"there can be no assurance that this evaluation will lead to any
transaction."


Dow Jones shares were suspended on the New York Stock Exchange
after they rocketed over 57 percent to around 57.28 dollars a
share in the wake of the report.


George Sakarellis, analyst at GARP Research, said the Bancroft
family in the past has rejected other takeover offers and as a
result he is "not surprised" to see shares below the 60-dollar
level of the bid.


"We would not expect to see a bidding war star at 60 dollars per
share," the analyst said. "Should the Bancroft family shun the
offer, the stock could fall back to the mid-30-dollar range."


The takeover, if successful, would give the Australian-born
Murdoch control of a legendary US business daily and its other
assets.


The the News Corp. umbrella, Murdoch controls the Fox television
and film studios, and BSkyB in Britain. In newspapers, the
company owns British-based dailies including The Sun and The
Times, as well as the New York Post and The Australian.


The move comes at a time of turmoil in the US newspaper industry,
with circulation slipping as more consumers turn to the Internet
and other media.


A survey this week showed US daily newspaper circulation is down
2.1 percent from a year ago.


Fewer than half of all US adults currently read a daily
newspaper, a far cry from 80.8 percent in 1964.


The Wall Street Journal is the second biggest US daily, and its
circulation edged up slightly over the past year to just over two
million.


Another big news media group, Tribune Co. announced last month it
would go private in a deal giving control of the publisher of the
Chicago Tribune to real estate mogul Sam Zell.


Last year, Knight-Ridder Newspapers was bought out and broken
into several pieces, placing prestigious dailies such as the
Miami Herald and Philadelphia Inquirer under new ownership.


Elsewhere in the media sector, Readers' Digest was sold to a
private equity firm for 2.4 billion dollars. And reports have
been swirling that other papers, including the Boston Globe,
owned by the New York Times, might be up for sale.


Dow Jones traces its history back to 1882 when Charles Henry Dow
and others started producing hand-written news bulletins in the
Wall Street area. It has long been under the control of the
Bancrofts, the descendants of Charles Barron, who bought the
company in 1902.


The company created the first Dow Jones stock index in 1884,
which remains a key benchmark for Wall Street.

