

Activists including US actress Mia Farrow launched on Tuesday a
campaign to force Fidelity and Berkshire Hathaway to withdraw
investments from Sudan over a humanitarian crisis in Darfur.


Farrow said she urged Fidelity Investments to divest, but the
company took no responsibility for the mass killings in Darfur.


"I take responsibility as to what happens to my money," she said
in a telephone conference call and added that she, like many
people, had a retirement fund with Fidelity.


"I would beg everybody to do as I did: move your money out of
Fidelity."


The campaign was launched by the Save Darfur Coalition, the Sudan
Divestment Task force, by Fidelity out of Sudan and by the NAACP,
the oldest and largest African-American civil rights group.


They plan a media blitz to sway shareholders as they gather for
their annual meetings in Boston, Massachusetts, where Fidelity is
located, and Omaha, Nebraska, home of Berkshire Hathaway.


The divestment coalition released what it said was part of
Fidelity Investment's response to the groups' request to divest.


"Fidelity portfolio managers make their investment decisions
based on business and financial considerations," the statement
said.


Farrow, a UN goodwill ambassador, and several hundred others on
Monday picketed outside the White House as part of a global day
of action in 35 world capitals for the troubled Sudanese region
on the fourth anniversary of the civil war there.


The conflict has cost 200,000 lives and forced two million people
from their homes, according to the United Nations, though
Khartoum contests those estimates, saying 9,000 people have died.


The coalition said it got a better reception from Berkshire
Hathaway, whose chief officer, Warren Buffet, is a
philanthropist. He sent tickets to members of the coalitions to
attend the upcoming annual stockholders' meeting and discuss the
issue there.


David Rubenstein, of the Save Darfur Coalition, said that Sudan
has in the past been susceptible to foreign investment pressures.


He said the success of the divestment "really depends on what
Fidelity and Berkshire Hathaway choose to do."


The campaign's pressure point is a Chinese oil company,
PetroChina, because 70 to 80 percent of Sudan government oil
receipts go to arming the Janjaweed militias, said the groups.


The militias are responsible for the mass killings, according to
foreign governments and the United Nations.


Fidelity is the largest single investor in PetroChina, when
counting only its shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the
coalition said.

