

Iran on Tuesday ruled out engaging in a "dialogue" with US
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at a conference on Iraq's
security this week, saying the time was not right for
negotiations.


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki is to attend the May
3-4 conference in Egypt alongside Rice, raising expectations the
two could meet in the highest- level bilateral talks between the
two foes since 1980.


But asked whether the two would hold talks at the Sharm el-Sheikh
meeting, Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostafavi replied: "For
the moment the conditions do not exist for such a dialogue.


"The United States cannot have this hostile attitude and say on
the other hand that they are favourable to negotiations," he told
the ISNA news agency.


Government spokesman Gholam Hossein Elham said: "The question of
negotiations with the United States is not serious.


"So long as the United States does not renounce its attitude and
oppressive and satanic vision, the problems will not be solved,"
he added, according to the Mehr news agency.


Iran had initially shown reluctance to even take part in the
conference in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh, saying it
was unhappy that world powers like the United States were taking
part alongside Iraq's neighbours.


However its decision this week to send Mottaki immediately
sparked speculation that the foreign minister could hold landmark
talks with Rice. Washington also refused to rule out such an
encounter.


The latest comments by Iranian officials appear to indicate
Tehran is not interested in substantive one-on-one talks with
Rice at the summit while still leaving the door open for more
informal contact.


Verbal exchanges between the two foes, who have had no diplomatic
ties since 1980, remain distinctly frosty, with Washington
accusing Tehran of aiding insurgents in Iraq and seeking nuclear
weapons. Iran denies both charges.


Washington cut ties with Iran in 1980 after radical students
stormed the US embassy in Tehran in late 1979 and held staff
hostage for 444 days. Ties have remained frozen ever since.


Channels of communication have been opened sporadically since
then, most notably when the United States and Iran cooperated
after the overthrow of Afghanistan's Taliban rulers.


The United States has said it is only prepared to have full
negotiations with Iran if Tehran suspends uranium enrichment,
something Tehran has refused to do. Iran says it is ready for
talks but without preconditions.


"The United States cannot one day vote a budget to take actions
against Iran, to threaten us militarily and then say that they
want to negotiate with us. They need to show they want logical
and just relations," said Mostafavi.


"The objective is not to just have a dialogue. The objective is
to have healthy relations between the two countries and for that
the conditions need to be created," he added.


US President George W. Bush said Rice would be "polite but firm"
if she encounters Mottaki at the conference but warned against
expecting any breakthrough between the two foes.


If Mottaki and Rice meet, it will be the first such contact since
then Iranian foreign minister Kamal Kharazi and US secretary of
state Colin Powell were seated next to each other by their
Egyptian hosts at dinner at a similar Iraq conference in November
2004.


"We can have discussions, just as (President Mahmoud) Ahmadinejad
said he was ready to have a televised debate with Bush,"
Mostafavi said, referring to an offer that was rejected by the
White House last year.

