

Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke on Tuesday offered a strong
defense of globalization and free trade, saying these forces have
made economies stronger and have not resulted in a loss of jobs.


Bernanke, in remarks prepared for an economic development summit
in Montana, sought to debunk the notion that free trade has led
to a loss of US jobs, and argued that it has been beneficial
overall, even though some people are adversely affected.


"Our willingness to trade freely with the world is indeed an
essential source of our prosperity -- and I think it is safe to
say that the importance of trade for us will continue to grow,"
Bernanke said.


Bernanke said any effort to restrict trade by imposing tariffs,
quotas, or other barriers "is exactly the wrong thing to do."


"Such solutions might temporarily slow job loss in affected
industries, but the benefits would be outweighed, typically many
times over, by the costs, which would include higher prices for
consumers and increased costs (and thus reduced competitiveness)
for US firms," he noted.


"In the long run, economic isolationism and retreat from
international competition would inexorably lead to lower
productivity for US firms and lower living standards for US
consumers."


Bernanke acknowledged that some industries such as textiles, have
lost jobs, but that the lost jobs have been replaced in general
by higher-paying ones that deal with exports.


"The US jobs created by trade also tend to offer higher pay and
demand greater skill than the jobs that are destroyed -- although
a downside is that, in the short run, the greater return to
skills created by trade may tend to increase the wage
differential between higher-skilled and lower-skilled workers and
thus contribute to income inequality," he said.


Outside the US, he said trade and globalization "are lifting
hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, especially in
Asia, but also in parts of Africa and Latin America."


He argued that trade "is proving far more effective than
traditional development aid" for poor nations.


Bernanke said the Doha Round of talks to further liberalize trade
appears to be stalled because "the benefits for some people may
not exceed the costs, at least not in the short run."


But he said this is a short-sighted view.


"Because the benefits of trade are widely diffused and often
indirect, those who lose from trade are often easier to identify
than those who gain, a visibility that may influence public
perceptions and the political process," he said.


Bernanke said there appeared to be no direct correlation between
trade deficits and unemployment, with the United States having a
low jobless rate despite its high trade gap.


He also said "dire predictions" about a loss of jobs from
outsourcing have not been proven true.


"Moreover, a balanced discussion of outsourcing abroad should
reflect that, just as US firms use the services of foreigners,
foreign firms make considerable use of the services of US
residents," he added.


"Many do not realize that, in contrast to its trade deficit in
goods, the United States runs a significant trade surplus in
services -- particularly in business, professional, and technical
services."

