

The World Bank and IMF grappled with internal upheaval Tuesday,
rocked by a scandal that threatens the job of bank president Paul
Wolfowitz, as well as Venezuela's surprise decision to withdraw
from both powerful financial institutions.


The World Bank and the IMF were founded at the end of World War
II as a way to help stabilize world finances, fight poverty.
Today, however, critics see them as tools of the United States
used to impose free-market ideology.


"We are going to withdraw before they go and rob us," Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez said Monday, announcing his decision.


"Why? Because (those institutions) are in crisis. I read in the
press somewhere that the IMF does not have enough money to meet
its payroll."


Relations between the Fund and Chavez have been especially testy
since the IMF offered support to a military regime that toppled
Chavez in an April 2002 coup. The regime lasted all of 47 hours
before Chavez returned to power.


"A few hours after the coup they put out a press release saying
that they would support the new government," said Mark Weisbrot
with the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a Washington-
based think-tank.


"It was unprecedented. The IMF doesn't act that fast even for
newly-elected governments," he said.


Several other Latin American presidents, including Nestor
Kirchner of Argentina and Rafael Correa of Ecuador, do not hide
their disdain for the institutions.


Correa even kicked out the World Bank representative from Ecuador
for allegedly refusing to disburse an already approved 100
million dollar loan in 2005, allegedly to punish the country for
oil sector reforms.


For the IMF, the chill in its relations with Latin nations has
financial consequences. It just announced that it has a
165-million dollar income gap for fiscal year 2007, which ended
April 30.


The irony for an institution that preaches budget orthodoxy is
overwhelming, and the situation is not likely to improve because
its loss in earnings is expected to reach 400 million dollars by
2010.


However, contrary, to what Chavez may say, the Fund is far from
bankruptcy -- it still has 9 billion dollars in reserves.


The shortfall is due to several countries -- including Brazil,
Argentina and Uruguay -- paying back their loans ahead of
schedule, thus depriving the Fund of interest it would have
earned. Such interest is its main source of income.


"The IMF's loan portfolio is down from 96 billion (dollars) in
2004 to 20 billion (dollars) today, half of which is going to
Turkey. It is only a matter of time until the rest disappears,"
said Weisbrot.


Wolfowitz has hired a prominent Washington lawyer to defend
himself against allegations he improperly pushed a generous pay
deal for his girlfriend, a Bank employee.


Wolfowitz arranged for the girlfriend Libyan-born Shaha Riza to
receive guaranteed promotions and a pay deal worth nearly 200,000
dollars when she was reassigned from the bank to work at the US
State Department.


The scandal has crippled a campaign he launched in June 2005 in
developing nations to root out corruption.


The setbacks at both institutions have resulted in a loss of
authority, said Devesh Kapur at the the University of
Pennsylvania, author of a history of the IMF.


"It's really a question of authority," said Kapur. "One is the
authority that comes with the money -- 'your guys want the money
then you have to listen to me.' That monopoly is no longer there
with the Bank or the Fund," said Kapur.


"Look at Zimbabwe -- the Chinese are there," Kapur said, noting
that the Bank and the Fund had lost their monopoly on
international aid.

