

World Bank directors will deal "urgently" with a scandal over the
lender's president Paul Wolfowitz, who is fighting calls to
resign over alleged favoritism involving his girlfriend, they
said Friday.


"The executive directors agreed on a process to deal with the
situation urgently, effectively and in an orderly manner," they
said in a statement after talks on the fate of Wolfowitz, a
former US deputy defense chief.


The board of executive directors had met behind closed doors to
thrash out their response to revelations that the former Pentagon
deputy chief ordered a massive pay deal for his bank employee
girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


They expressed "great concern" over claims of a conflict of
interest which have caused a rebellion among senior staff, some
of whom have reportedly asked him to step down.


"The executive directors discussed questions related to conflicts
of interest and possible violations of staff rules," the
statement said. "They identified a number of issues requiring
further consideration."


The board's 24 members represent major individual countries and
wider blocs covering the major development lender's 185 member
states.


Last week, it revealed that Wolfowitz in 2005 personally ordered
a hefty pay package worth nearly 200,000 dollars and guaranteed
promotions for Riza.


Friday's statement called on bank chiefs probing the affair to
"consider immediately the arrangements made for the secondment of
the staff member closely associated with the president" as well
as "issues around employment contracts made in the office of the
president."


After Wolfowitz took over the World Bank in June 2005, Riza was
sent on assignment to the US State Department to prevent any
conflicts of interest. But she has remained on the bank's
payroll.


Wolfowitz on Sunday vowed to fight on, but sources close to the
bank, asking not be named, told AFP the board's latest meeting
would heap further pressure on him. The White House has
repeatedly voiced support for him.

