

Producers of a Singapore film about a man and boy struggling with
their mutual sexual desire said Friday they had withdrawn it from
public screening at the city-state's film festival.


The decision came after Singapore censors made three cuts to
scenes depicting homosexual and group sex, the Singapore
International Film Festival (SIFF) told AFP.


"Solos," directed by Loo Zihan and Kan Lume, will not receive its
world premiere next Wednesday at the festival, the film's
publicist, Red Dawn Communications, said in a news release.


The decision to withdraw the film "is a joint decision between
the producers and the organisers of the festival to preserve the
principle that films at the festival should be shown uncut," the
news release said.


"Solos" will still compete in SIFF's Silver Screen Awards, and
judges will be allowed a private screening, Red Dawn
Communications said.


"I am disappointed, but I understand where they are coming from.
The scenes they cut were gay sex scenes," said producer Florence
Ang.


"The entire film had no dialogue... We put those scenes in partly
to demonstrate the emotions of the characters."


SIFF also said "Princess," a manga-inspired feature from Denmark,
was also withdrawn from public screening after one cut by
censors. The scene depicted a woman in a nun's habit in a
sexually suggestive pose, SIFF said.


"Films submitted for festivals are generally given more leeway in
view of the limited screening and niche audience," the Board of
Film Censors said.


"The two films have, however, exceeded the leeway that is granted
to festivals," and were classified for viewing, with edits, for
people aged 21 and above, the board said.


It said "Princess" was deemed denigrating to a religion or a
religious symbol.


Vivian Balakrishnan, Singapore's second minister for information,
communications and the arts, said last month that the city-state
was undergoing liberalisation but retained a very strong
conservative core.


Singapore's penal code criminalises "gross indecency" between two
males.


The 20th Singapore International Film Festival began on Wednesday
and runs for 13 days with more than 300 productions from 40
countries.


Earlier this month, Singapore censors banned a film on former
political detainee Said Zahari, calling it a "misleading and
distorted portrayal" of his detention which could undermine
confidence in the government.


Singapore has often been criticised by human rights and media
groups for maintaining strict political controls despite its
rapid economic modernisation.


The government says the strict laws are necessary to maintain law
and order -- a pillar of the country's economic prosperity.

