

World Bank directors Friday promised urgent action over a pay
scandal engulfing the development lender's president, Paul
Wolfowitz, as calls mount from senior staff for his resignation.


"The executive directors agreed on a process to deal with the
situation urgently, effectively and in an orderly manner," they
said in a statement after late-night talks on the fate of
Wolfowitz, a former US deputy defense chief.


The board of 24 executive directors had met for several hours
behind closed doors to thrash out their response to revelations
that Wolfowitz ordered a massive pay deal for his bank employee
girlfriend, Shaha Riza.


Echoing a statement from World Bank ministers Sunday, the
directors expressed "great concern" over the affair, which has
caused a rebellion among the World Bank's 10,000 staff.


The directors said they had discussed "questions related to
conflicts of interest and possible violations of staff rules" and
identified issues requiring further consideration, including the
arrangements made for Riza.


They asked bank officials investigating the affair "to consider
immediately the arrangements made for the secondment of the staff
member closely associated with the president."


The meeting came after a stormy session of senior staffers
Wednesday in which one of Wolfowitz's two top deputies --
managing director Graeme Wheeler of New Zealand -- told him
directly to quit.


Wolfowitz offered to make some management changes but was told
point-blank that only his departure could rescue the World Bank's
credibility, according to sources.


"It's not about management style. It's not about interaction with
staff," one insider said, on condition of anonymity. "There was
an exasperation that was conveyed to Wolfowitz: what part of
'resign' don't you understand?"


Reports said senior managers from Latin America and Asia had
sided with Wheeler, but that Wolfowitz enjoyed backing from
officials he appointed to head the bank's Middle East and Africa
divisions.


Manish Bapna, executive director of the Bank Information Center,
an independent group tracking World Bank affairs, said many now
doubt whether Wolfowitz "possesses the credibility and trust
required to lead the world's most influential development
organization."


The bank's staff association and European governments, long
suspicious of Wolfowitz, have faced off against supporters
including the United States, Japan and some African countries.


The White House Thursday reiterated its "confidence" in him.
Spokeswoman Dana Perino said: "What the president (George W.
Bush) has said is that Paul Wolfowitz apologized, and to let the
board do its work."


But The Times newspaper in London reported Friday that the Bush
administration "was drawing up a list of candidates to succeed"
Wolfowitz. The list is reportedly headed by former Afghan finance
minister Ashraf Ghani.


The board met for the first time since last week revealing that
Wolfowitz in 2005 personally ordered a hefty pay package worth
nearly 200,000 dollars and guaranteed promotions for the Libyan-
born Riza.


After he took over the World Bank in June 2005, Riza was sent on
assignment to the US State Department to prevent any conflicts of
interest, but has remained on the bank's payroll.


It has also emerged that while Wolfowitz was still at the
Pentagon, Riza visited Baghdad as a consultant for US military
contractor Science Applications International Corp. (SAIC) in
2003, just after the US-led invasion of Iraq.


The United States is by far the bank's biggest shareholder and
has its own seat on the board, along with Japan, Germany, Britain
and France. The 19 other directors represent blocs of the rest of
the bank's 185 member states.

