

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates held talks with his top
generals and Iraqi leaders in Baghdad on Friday amid new signs
that American patience with its Iraqi allies is wearing thin.


The secretary's third visit to Iraq came on a week that saw the
bloodiest Al- Qaeda car bomb attack yet, killing 140 civilians as
part of a wave of insurgent violence designed to thwart a joint
US and Iraqi security plan.


Before his arrival in Iraq, Gates warned Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki's government that US support was "not an open-ended
commitment" and on Friday he was expected to urge faster work on
political reconciliation.


Aside from the intense violence, and mounting US military
casualties, Gates's mission came against the backdrop of
increased political pressure on President George W. Bush's
administration to find a quick exit from Iraq.


Ahead of Friday's meetings, Senator Harry Reid, leader of the
Senate's Democratic majority, said the carnage proved that Bush's
decision to send extra troops to Baghdad to quell the violence
had failed.


"This war is lost, and this surge is not accomplishing anything,
as is shown by the extreme violence in Iraq this week," he said.


Gates arrived in Iraq on Thursday and met his top military
commanders in a US Marine bases outside the western city of
Fallujah, a former rebel base.


On Friday he met the US ambassador to Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, and
was expected to hold talks with top Iraqi leaders, including
Maliki and his Iraqi counterpart.


Gates is keen to see Iraq's beleaguered coalition government work
harder to find ways to bridge the Shiite and Sunni divide that
feeds the sectarian war that has left tens of thousands of Iraqis
dead.


"I would like to see faster progress," Gates told reporters
travelling with him, calling for a speedy passage of key laws
that could reintegrate former Baathists into public life and
distribute oil revenues equally.


His visit comes when Baghdad is rocked by daily bomb attacks and
back home the opposition Democrats have already declared a defeat
for the American forces in Iraq.


In a series of car bombings since Wednesday, more than 200 people
have been killed in Baghdad, security and medical officials told
AFP.


The deadliest bombing was in the Shiite Sadriyah district where
140 people were slaughtered on Wednesday in the single biggest
attack in the country since the March 2003 invasion.


The US military says the attack bore the signature of the Al-
Qaeda group, which is known to carry out such high-profile
bombings in its quest to keep alive the anti-American insurgency
and the bitter Shiite-Sunni divide.


On Thursday, a senior US military official said in Washington
that such attacks are expected to continue in the future as Al-
Qaeda aims to destabilise security operations in Baghdad.


"We should have realistic expectations. These high-profile
attacks are going to continue," said Major General Michael
Barbero, the Joint Staff's deputy director for regional
operations.


"It's, you know, action on our part, and now we're seeing the
reaction on their part," Barbero said. "And it'll be like that
until we can defeat these forces."


Meanwhile, Bush and the Democrat opposition -- which now controls
Congress and hence can authorise or hold-up military spending --
are locked in a bitter feud over the war.


The Democrats want to include a date for the withdrawal of troops
from Iraq in a bill sanctioning new funds for the war, a move
rejected by the Republican president who has threatened to veto
it.


Simultaneously, US losses are mounting in Iraq as the death of
another marine was announced on Friday, taking the military's
losses in this month alone to 54 and to 3,314 since the invasion.


Iraqi officials also reported that the son of prominent Shiite
leader Abdel Aziz al-Hakim was attacked in a town south of
Baghdad late Thursday where six of his security personnel were
wounded.


In other violence at least two people were killed on Friday,
including an 11 -year-old girl slain by a roadside bomb in the
southern city of Nassiriyah.

