

Iran still needs several years to be in a position to manufacture
enough nuclear fuel through uranium enrichment for industrial
use, the head of Iran's atomic energy agency said on Friday.


"Installation of centrifuges continues and each month inspectors
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), when they come
to Tehran, will see important changes" at the Natanz nuclear
plant, said Gholamreza Aghazadeh.


"We have reached the industrial stage, but we need several years
to create an industrial unit capable of producing fuel for our
power stations," he said, quoted by the state news agency IRNA.


"We must install 50,000 centrifuges to be able to provide the
fuel for two nuclear stations," said Aghazadeh.


Iran has started feeding uranium gas for enrichment at a nuclear
plant where it has installed over 1,300 centrifuges, in defiance
of UN resolutions, the IAEA said on Wednesday.


It said Iran has assembled eight cascades of 164 centrifuges each
-- a total of 1,312 of the machines which turn uranium gas into
enriched uranium for use as either nuclear reactor fuel or to be
the fissile core of atom bombs -- at a heavily bunkered
underground facility in Natanz.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions on the
Islamic republic for failing to halt enrichment.


A close observer of the IAEA said earlier this week "enrichment
has not really started. The centrifuges are running at low
pressure," a first step to getting them up to speed.


Iran, which insists its nuclear programme is a peaceful effort to
generate electricity, has reduced cooperation with the IAEA since
the Security Council last month imposed the second round of
sanctions on Iran.


On the diplomatic front, however, EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana is to hold new talks on April 25 with Iran's top nuclear
negotiator Ali Larijani.


During the main weekly Muslim prayers, influential former
president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani called for world powers to opt
for "negotiation and dialogue" to resolve the nuclear dispute
with Iran.


"We will not give up on our rights but we can give a guarantee
that we are following the peaceful path in the nuclear sector and
will not take the military path," he said in a sermon.

