

Bundesbank President Axel Weber suggested on Friday that the
European Central Bank was likely to raise its key interest rates
still further to curb inflation in the eurozone.


"In the current economic environment, we can't yet sound the all-
clear from a monetary policy point of view," Weber, who sits on
the ECB's decision-making governing council, told the business
daily Handelsblatt.


"There are price risks in the medium term and we will have to
counter those," he said as the euro approaches a record high
point against the dollar.


An increase in interest rates tends to attract foreign funds into
a currency, thereby pushing up its value on foreign exchange
markets.


The ECB has raised its key interest rates seven times in the past
16 months, last lifting them by a quarter of a percentage point
to a five-and-a-year high of 3.75 percent in March.


And at the bank's policy-setting meeting this month, ECB chief
Jean-Claude Trichet sent clear signals that eurozone borrowing
costs were set to rise again to 4.0 percent in June.


Bundesbank chief Weber was optimistic about the outlook, not only
for the German economy, but the entire eurozone.


"The economic environment and the medium-term perspective are
very positive," he said.


"There is justified reason to hope that the favourable economic
situation in Germany will continue in the coming years."


Nevertheless, there were risks to the growth scenario, Weber
cautioned, pointing to global imbalances and so-called "carry
trades" in foreign exchange markets, where investors borrow money
in countries with low interest rates to invest it in countries
with high interest rates.


Weber said that the ECB was also concerned about a weakening of
real estate markets in the US and parts of the euro zone.


"Taken together, all these risks could potentially lead to
increased volatility on the financial markets," the Bundesbank
chief said.


If the current economic cycle were to turn, "the financial
markets would have to prove their robustness in a less favourable
environment," he said.

