

A yacht has been found drifting off the Australian coast with
computers running and a table laid for a meal -- but no sign of
the crew, puzzled officials said Friday.


The 12-metre catamaran was spotted by a customs helicopter about
80 nautical miles off Townsville on Australia's northeast coast,
near the outer Great Barrier Reef on Thursday, national radio
reported.


The discovery that the yacht was unmanned sparked a major sea and
air search for the three crew, two men in their 60s and one aged
56.


Emergency Management Queensland spokesman Jon Hall said rescue
crews were puzzled by what they found aboard the yacht because
"everything appeared normal".


"The engine was running, the computers were running, there was a
laptop set up on the table which was running, the radio was
working, the GPS was working and there was food and utensils set
on the table ready to eat, but no sign of the crew," he said.


"It was a bit strange."


Police said one of the crewmen is believed to have bought the
catamaran, KAZ II, at Airlie Beach south of Townsville and the
three planned to travel home to Western Australia around the
northern coastline.


Hall said the boat's GPS system had been retrieved and the data
would be analysed for clues to the mysterious disappearance of
the crew.


"That will now enable us to track backwards where this yacht has
actually been in the last few days, and we're hoping that can
pinpoint the search area for the missing crew," he said.


All the boat's sails were up but one was badly shredded, while
three life jackets and survival equipment, including an emergency
beacon, were found on board.


Police Chief Superintendent Roy Wall said there was nothing to
indicate the yacht had capsized at any stage.


"There's nothing on board to indicate there's been any great
disaster. The vessel is upright and certainly in reasonably good
condition.


"At this stage it's just a mystery."


Water police were towing the yacht to Townsville, where it would
be subjected to a forensic examination, Wall said.


"The weather on Sunday, Monday wasn't too good -- there was a
fair sort of a wind blowing out there. But it's improved since
then, so who knows what could have happened."

