

Thousands of mine workers in Indonesia's remote Papua province
protested for a third day Friday over pay and benefits as talks
with US gold and copper firm Freeport McMoRan dragged on.


Workers from the giant Grasberg mine said they were demanding a
teleconference with Freeport's chief executive in the United
States, as frustration mounted in talks with local company
officials.


"The decision, yesterday (Thursday) after our talks failed to
yield results, was to hold a teleconference meeting with James
Moffet at 9:00 am today," said Frans Pigome whose group Tongi
Papua represents workers at the talks.


"But it is now past noon and nothing has happened and no
explanations have been given," Pigome said.


"We are now in a waiting position. Nothing else," he added.


The protracted dispute, which centres on demands for higher wages
and increased recruitment of Papuan workers as permanent
employees, has helped push world copper prices to seven-month
highs.


Freeport has said this week's protest has not disrupted output at
the giant copper mine but an Indonesian government minister said
Thursday that production had been slashed because of a lack of
workers on site.


Several thousand miners were gathered in Kuala Kencana, site of
the headquarters of PT Freeport Indonesia, which operates the
mine, just outside the town of Timika.


"We remain committed that this protest remains a peaceful one,"
Pigome said.


Critics accuse Freeport of not giving enough to the people of
Papua in return for the mine. They allege the mine causes
pollution and that the military's protection of the site leads to
human rights abuses.


The firm has disputed the claims.


Freeport operates concessions totalling 3.6 million hectares (8.9
million acres) stretching from the coast to the central mountain
range at Timika, with its copper reserves estimated at 2.6
billion tonnes.


It runs its Grasberg mine in southwest Papua under a 30-year
contract with the Indonesian government that began in 1992. The
company owns 91 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, with the rest
in government hands.

