

Lack of competition in Europe's wholesale electricity market is
keeping prices artificially high, according to a new report
published Friday by the EU's executive arm.


While rising fuel costs have contributed to electricity price
increases since 2003, "wholesale electricity prices are
significantly higher than would be expected on perfectly
competitive markets," according to the Commission study, carried
out by British consultants.


The survey confirms the Commission's earlier findings that a
skewed market exists.


The EU executive has already begun taking remedial action and on
Friday said more may be necessary.


Last December EU regulators carried out surprise raids on
electricity companies in Germany, deemed the worst offender,
looking for evidence in an antitrust investigation.


"In the case of Germany ... the results of this study have
confirmed our suspicions that all was not well," Commission
spokesman on competition Jonathan Todd told reporters in
Brussels.


"It is possible that other anti-trust cases may follow," he
added, noting that Spain was the next worst offender.


"The differences are highest when only a few generators with
available capacity are needed to meet demand, especially at peak
time," the Commission said in a statement.


The results of the study show that "competition in EU wholesale
electricity markets is not yet functioning properly," it added.


The study will be fuel for EU Energy Commissioner Andris
Piebalgs' campaign to see member states follow through on their
commitment to create competitive energy markets.


The unprecedented study carried out a detailed analysis of the
wholesale electricity markets of six EU member states; Belgium,
Germany, Spain, France, the Netherlands and Britain (excluding
Northern Ireland) from 2003-2005.


EU investigators analysed hourly data on virtually all power
plants in each market.


Part of the study compared the actual market price in four of
those countries with "what it would have been if the markets ...
had been perfectly competitive."


The "mark-up" -- separate from normal profits -- between the two
figures was found to be highest in Germany and Spain and lower in
Britain and the Netherlands.


No conclusions were drawn for France and Belgium due to a lack of
information or, in Belgium's case, an unreliable market price.


The cartel busters have recently been active in another area of
the market.


In January, EU antitrust chief Neelie Kroes hitting 11 major
companies -- including Alstom, Fuji, Hitachi and Siemens -- with
a bumper 750-million-euro (972-million-dollar) fine for fixing
prices and carving up the market in electrical generation
equipment.

