

Dutch investment bank ABN Amro announced Friday it will boost its
consumer banking operations in Malaysia, a move it said was part
of its expansion into the region.


The bank unveiled a new banking service aimed at high net worth
customers and also said it would open more branches in the
country.


"We already have a successful track record in commercial banking
in Malaysia and it is a natural next step for us to expand our
services to consumer banking," said Harry Naysmith, managing
director of local unit ABN Amro Bank Berhad.


"We believe there is a growing mass affluent segment in Malaysia,
requiring sophisticated financial products," he told reporters.


The bank will open two more branches in the country by June -- in
southern Johor Bahru city and Sitiawan, a town near the coast of
western Perak state.


ABN Amro already has three branches in the capital Kuala Lumpur,
northern Penang state and the offshore financial hub of Labuan.


Its head of consumer clients for Asia, Jim Brown, said Malaysia
was now one of nine Asian countries where ABN Amro is offering
financial management services to target affluent customers.


"We are looking to expand our consumer business throughout Asia.
Today we operate that in nine countries in Asia. All these
businesses are expanding very rapidly," Brown said.


However, Naysmith said ABN Amro intended to remain a niche bank
in Malaysia.


"It is not our intention to set up a huge distribution network.
That is not our strategy. At the end of the day, we'd expect,
hopefully, to have 10 to 12 branches," he said.


ABN Amro launched its first Islamic financial product in Malaysia
last month and it intends to eventually set up a fully- fledged
Islamic banking unit.


Noting that Malaysia is a "natural hub for Islamic banking" in
Southeast Asia, Naysmith said the subsidiary may be established
next year.


"We have been given a licence to operate through (one channel) at
the moment. As and when that starts and develops to a certain
size, it would be a natural move to go to a subsidiary," Naysmith
said.


"It's really a question of timing ... probably next year," he
said.

