

The Tokyo stock market is bracing for a slew of corporate results
over the coming week, with the potential for a boost to sentiment
if firms give upbeat earnings forecasts, analysts said Friday.


They said that a slew of domestic data as well as the performance
of the US and Chinese stock markets would also influence Japanese
shares ahead of a clutch of public holidays the following week.


Over the week to April 20, the Tokyo Stock Exchange's benchmark
Nikkei-225 index rose by 88.67 points or 0.51 percent to
17,452.62, after a 0.69 drop the previous week.


The broader Topix index of all first-section companies increased
4.57 points or 0.27 percent to 1,710.07, after a loss of 0.67
percent the previous week.


Next week large Japanese corporations including Canon, KDDI,
Honda, Sharp, Fujitsu, Toshiba, Nissan and NTT DoCoMo will
publish their annual financial results.


"Looking at economic indicators such as the Bank of Japan's
Tankan quarterly business confidence survey, earnings reports of
major Japanese firms are likely to be bright," said Seiichi
Suzuki, market analyst at Tokai Tokyo Securities.


"Even though some investors may be cautious ahead of the Golden
Week holidays, they are definitely seeking the right time to buy,
not to sell, stocks," he said.


Japanese financial markets will be closed for three out of the
five usual trading days during this year's Golden Week holidays
which start on April 28.


The Tokyo market will also continue to track the performance of
the yen as well the fortunes of the US and Chinese stock markets
next week amid concerns about China's breakneck economic growth,
dealers said.


"Investors are still wary of the outlook for the US economy, but
appear to have recovered from a huge shock they experienced in
February when stock prices fell simultaneously all over the
world," said Hideo Mizutani, chief strategist at Sieg Securities.


"I would say the stock market next week will be rather subdued
because of the coming holidays, but some investors may be active
in certain shares based on speculation about earnings reports in
local media," said Mizutani.


Both analysts said the Nikkei-225 will hover between 17,300 and
17,700 points over the coming week.


Investors will be closely watching domestic data such as
industrial output, consumer prices and unemployment, as well as
the Bank of Japan's economic outlook report and interest rate
decision, all due on Friday, analysts said.

