

North Korea said Friday it was still working to solve a banking
dispute which is blocking progress on its nuclear disarmament, 10
days after the United States said the issue had been settled.


Analysts said the delay indicated the complexity of the dispute
over the 25 million dollars in Banco Delta Asia (BDA) even after
the North's accounts in the Macau bank were officially unfrozen.


The North's official media reported "brisk" working negotiations
between one of its banks and BDA to settle the issue. It did not
say when or how a funds transfer would be achieved, but
reaffirmed its promise to start denuclearising once it gets the
cash.


The communist state wants above all to test whether it has
regained access to the international banking system, the analysts
told AFP.


After the US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005 on
suspicion of money- laundering and handling the North's
counterfeit notes, a series of other banks in Asia were persuaded
to stop handling Pyongyang's business -- making even legitimate
transactions difficult.


"If a US bank agrees to accept the North Korean money, this issue
would be resolved overnight," said professor Nam Sung-Wook of
Korea University's department of North Korean studies.


"But no bank in the world would handle the tainted funds
designated as illegal" by the Treasury as they fear they might
also be liable to sanctions, he told AFP.


A US bank might need special authorisation to handle the cash.


The Treasury has banned all US financial institutions from
maintaining correspondent accounts for BDA. Its order prevents
BDA, which denies any wrongdoing, from accessing the US financial
system directly or indirectly.


"Pyongyang not only wants the money back but it seeks to reopen
its financial transactions in the international banking system,"
said professor Kim Keun-Sik at the University of North Korean
Studies.


South Korean Foreign Minister Song Min-Soon made the same point
last week.


"I think North Korea finds it necessary that it should be able to
freely dispose of the money to its own liking, and upon
withdrawing the money it should be able to enter the normal
international financial network and engage in normal
transactions," he said.


North Korea has since 2005 made denuclearisation conditional on a
solution to the BDA funds, some of which belong to companies
doing business in the North.


A six-nation agreement reached in February set April 14 as the
deadline for the North to shut down its Yongbyon nuclear reactor
as the first step in the accord. This slipped by because of the
unresolved bank dispute.


Washington says the funds were freed for collection last week and
it has done all that it should.


But North Korea does not see the issue as settled, analysts say.


"There exists a serious gap between the US and North Korean side
as this is not an issue that can be settled politically," said
Kim Keun-Sik.


Dong Yong-Seung, an expert on North Korea's economy at Samsung
Economic Research Institute, said Pyongyang would consider the
sanctions were still in place unless it could transfer the money
to other banks.


Barring any other possible solution, Nam of Korea University said
Washington was expected to take a few weeks to come up with one.


"The issue is likely to be settled next month. Washington feels
the burden for resolving the BDA issue and it is expected to come
up with a solution in an inconspicuous way," he said.

