

German Defence Minister Franz Josef Jung arrived Friday in South
Korea to discuss the proposed sale of second-hand Patriot
missiles and other military issues, officials said.


The German minister is scheduled to hold talks with his South
Korean counterpart Kim Jang-Soo later Friday on regional security
and expanding defence cooperation.


"The two sides are preparing to strike a deal soon on the price
of Patriot missiles," said Kim Jung-Sup, director of the defence
ministry's international defence policy division.


South Korea, facing a potential military threat from nuclear-
armed North Korea, wants to replace its ground-to-air Nike
missiles introduced 40 years ago with 48 Patriot missiles from
Germany starting next year.


The deal is expected to cost 1.1 trillion won (1.2 billion
dollars).


The South Korean military had planned to buy 48 Patriots from its
main ally the United States in 2000 but the plan was scrapped
because of a dispute over the cost.


The United States, which has 29,500 troops stationed here, has
eight batteries of Patriot missiles at four air bases throughout
South Korea.


North Korea last July raised regional tensions by test-firing
missiles and in October staged its first underground nuclear
weapons test. It is not known whether it is capable of
miniaturising an atomic weapon to fit on a missile warhead.


Kim, quoted by Yonhap news agency, said the two ministers will
also discuss conditions in Afghanistan and Lebanon, where Germany
has troops.


South Korea has stationed a 205-member engineering and medical
military force in Afghanistan since 2002. It plans to send troops
to Lebanon in June to join a United Nations peacekeeping force.


Germany is a main source of South Korea's submarine imports.
Eurocopter, a Franco-German firm, is South Korea's partner for
the development of advanced military transport helicopters.


Jung paid a courtesy call on President Roh Moo-Hyun, who told him
that closer bilateral defence ties would contribute to peace and
stability on the Korean peninsula.

