

Mistrust and a lack of respect in the relations between the
European Union and Russia are at their worst since the Cold War,
EU trade commissioner Peter Mandelson warned Friday.


Mandelson argues that Russia tends to view the EU's engagement
with former Soviet republics as self-interested encroachment, and
Europe's advice to Moscow on democracy and the rule of law may be
counter-productive.


Overall, according to the former minister in British Prime
Minister Tony Blair's government, the current relationship
between Europe and Russia involves a "level of misunderstanding
or even mistrust we have not seen since the end of the Cold War.


"Neither thinks they enjoy the respect and goodwill from the
other they are entitled to expect," he argues in a speech to be
delivered later Friday in Bologna, Italy.


Europe and Russia find themselves at odds, among other things,
over US plans for parts of a missile defence system to be based
in Poland and the Czech Republic and on the future status of the
Serbian province of Kosovo.


"Unless we comprehend our different perceptions of the landscape
left behind by the last century, we risk getting the EU-Russia
relationship badly wrong," said Mandelson.


In his view, Russia tends to see the EU's relations with former
Soviet-bloc states "not as the concern of a friendly partner, but
the encroachment of a self-interested neighbour."


On Monday the diplomatic wrangling took a new turn when the
German presidency of the European Union voiced concern over a
Russian crackdown on opposition demonstrations over the weekend
and urged Moscow to respect democratic freedoms.


And last week the EU's energy commissioner again advocated
diversifying the bloc's supplies of natural gas to reduce
dependance on Russian giant Gazprom.


On top of that a lingering Russian embargo on Polish foodstuffs
has delayed the start of a new wide-ranging partnership
agreement.


Mandelson warned that trade issues between the EU and Russia
should not become heavily politicised.


Ahead of an EU-Russia summit next month, he believes that the
discussions on democratic values may not accomplish much.


"Effective engagement is surely as much about understanding how
you will be perceived as choosing what to say," he argues in an
advance copy of the speech distributed in Brussels.


On Saturday in Cyprus there will be a key meeting between EU
Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou and Russian Agriculture
Minister Alexei Gordeyev to discuss the embargo on Polish meat
and other farm products.


It is hoped those talks will make some progress ahead of a visit
to Luxembourg on Monday by Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov
on the sidelines of a meeting of his EU counterparts where all
the contentious issues are expected to be addressed.

