

The Canterbury Crusaders tightened their hold on a home Super 14
semi-final place with a hard fought but stop-start 23-13 win over
the Wellington Hurricanes here Friday.


The Hurricanes slim semi-final hopes all but evaporated with
their one try to two loss to their southern rivals. Star flyhalf
Dan Carter added 13 points for the Crusaders with two conversions
and three penalties.


With a team full of All Blacks between the two sides, the match
was predictably hard fought but fell short of the spectacle the
big Jade Stadium crowd were hoping for.


"There were a lot of mistakes, it wasn't that pretty. But we got
four points and we've got to be happy I guess," Crusaders skipper
Richie McCaw said afterwards.


Both sides were guilty of poor handling in a scrappy first half
lacking continuity, with defensive lapses responsible for the
three tries, all scored in the first quarter.


After 10 minutes, Hurricanes inside centre Ma'a Nonu sprinted
through a gaping hole in the Crusaders backline defence for the
opening try in the Hurricanes first attacking opportunity of the
match.


The Crusaders replied five minutes later when hooker Corey Flynn
ran 35 metres and shrugged off two ineffective Hurricanes tackles
to score. Lock Ross Filipo added another try soon after, running
through the middle of a ruck on the Hurricanes tryline to touch
down with barely a hand on him.


A penalty by Weepu in the final minute of the first spell cut the
Crusaders' lead to 17-13.


Hurricanes and All Blacks hard man flanker Jerry Collins was
stretchered off the field in a neck brace after going down while
making a tackle early in the second spell. Sky Television
reported he was taken to hospital in a precautionary move.


The Hurricanes evened up possession and territory in the second
spell, despite losing Collins and Nonu spending 10 minutes in the
sin bin.


A brilliant jinking run by Hurricanes fullback Corey Jane nearly
produced their second try after 55 minutes but the move broke
down just short of the line. In a last throw of the dice for the
visitors, No. 8 and skipper Rodney So'oialo narrowly failed to go
over from the back of a scrum with just six minutes remaining.


But in the end two penalties from Carter were the only scores in
the second spell to stretch the Crusaders' lead.

