

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko met Friday with arch-rival
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych in an attempt to resolve the
constitutional feud paralyzing government in this ex-Soviet
state.


Ahead of the talks, thousands of demonstrators thronged around
the constitutional court, whose 18 judges sat for a fourth day to
probe the legality of an April 2 decree by the Western-leaning
president to dissolve parliament.


The decree opposed by Yanukovych's pro-Russian parliamentary
majority, sparked a power struggle that has spilled onto the
streets with demonstrations reminiscent of the 2004 uprising
known as the Orange Revolution.


The meeting between Yanukovych and Yushchenko was organized at
the request of the prime minister, the presidential
administration said in a statement.


"The main topic of the meeting is the resolution of the political
crisis," it added.


The pair have held several meetings since the start of the
crisis, with little apparent progress.


Yushchenko has suggested that elections for a new parliament
could take place later than the May 27 deadline laid down by his
decree to dissolve the legislature, but the suggestion has failed
to defuse tensions.


Yanukovych insists the parliament was elected legally in free and
fair elections last year, while Yushchenko says the people's will
has been undermined by the poaching of his deputies by his
rival's coalition.


Both Yushchenko and Yanukovych say they will respect the final
decision of the constitutional court.


Presidential representative Volodymyr Shapoval told the court
Thursday that Yanukovych committed a "grave violation of voters'
rights" by trying to lure additional deputies over to their side.


Since the election of the current parliament in March 2006, more
than 10 deputies have switched sides to join Yanukovych's
parliamentary majority.


Several thousand protestors gathered around the court on Friday
with police maintaining access for the judges, who were able to
start a fourth day of deliberations on time.


On Wednesday protestors managed to delay the court's proceedings
by an hour as officials were forced to climb over a metal fence
to enter the building.


Police reinforcements and a metal fence now separate the rival
supporters outside the court.


Yushchenko ally Yulia Tymoshenko was due to address an anti-
Yanukovych rally on a central square Friday, under the slogan:
"Yes to elections, No to the coup," according to a commercial run
repeatedly on local television.


While both sides have held protests over the past three weeks,
none have matched in size those of the 2004 Orange Revolution
that led to the overturning of a Yanukovych victory in
presidential elections ruled fraudulent by the constitutional
court.


New elections were held in December that year and Yushchenko won.
Since then, the president's popularity ratings have plummeted and
following parliamentary polls last year Yanukovych made a come-
back as prime minister.


The crisis is being closely watched by outside powers anxious
about the political course of this country of 47 million people,
located between the European Union and NATO to the west and
Russia to the east.

