

Siemens' former chief executive and current supervisory board
chief Heinrich von Pierer is to quit next week, the German
engineering giant said late on Thursday, as the company sinks
ever deeper into a mire of corruption allegations.


Von Pierer, hitherto one of the most respected company executives
in Germany, is to "vacate his position at the beginning of the
supervisory board meeting on April 25," Siemens said in a
statement.


He is to be replaced by fellow board member Gerhard Cromme, who
will chair the board until January 2008, when von Pierer's
contract had originally been scheduled to expire.


Von Pierer, 66, who was even mooted at one time as a possible
candidate for German president, strenuously denied any
wrongdoing, but said he was standing down in the interests of the
company.


"I have always believed that one's duty to the company and its
well over 400,000 employees worldwide must take priority over
one's own interests," von Pierer said.


"A personal responsibility regarding the current investigations
was not the basis for my decision," he insisted.


"Despite its outstanding business performance, Siemens has run
into a difficult situation due to the in part apparent and in
part alleged misconduct of a number of managers and employees,"
von Pierer said.


Siemens had launched a "comprehensive and independent
investigation" into the allegations and "the measures launched at
that time are being rigorously implemented," he said.


"The sole reason for my decision is to serve the best interests
of Siemens. My goal is to support the company's sustained
success, and our impressive performance worldwide makes my
decision much easier," von Pierer continued.


"I assume that electing a new supervisory board chairman will
also make a contribution toward taking our company out of the
headlines and bringing it back into calmer waters."


Siemens is currently engulfed in a massive slush-fund scandal, in
which prosecutors allege that company managers siphoned off
hundreds of millions of euros (dollars) in company money to
obtain foreign contracts.


Prosecutors recently arrested two more current and former
managers in connection with the matter following a series of
high-profile arrests at the end of last year, including the
former head of Siemens' telecoms division, Thomas Ganswindt.


Prosecutors allege that the employees concerned are suspected of
collaborating to open slush fund accounts abroad and of operating
a system to embezzle company money.


Prosecutors put the sum held in the accounts at 200 million euros
(272 million dollars) and some of that money may have been used
as bribes to obtain contracts abroad.


Siemens, which itself said it had uncovered as much as 420
million euros in suspicious payments, protests its innocence and
its current chief executive Klaus Kleinfeld is spear-heading a
determined anti-corruption drive within the company.


In a separate affair, management allegedly tried to build up a
small trade union as a counterweight to the all-powerful labour
union, IG Metall.


Board member Johannes Feldmayer was arrested in connection with
those allegations, but subsequently released on bail.


As more and more allegations come to light, critics say that a
culture of corruption is endemic within Siemens.


And since Siemens is regard as one of the country's best-known
and hitherto most respected companies, the allegations also
looked to taint Germany's squeaky- clean business image as a
whole.

