

US Defence Secretary Robert Gates was to meet Iraqi leaders
Friday, the second day of a visit to Iraq, as a US commander
warned that Al-Qaeda could be expected to puruse its bombing
campaign.


During his meetings with Iraqi leaders, the defence secretary is
expected to urge them to speed up a fragile programme to
reconcile the bitterly divided Shiite and Sunni communities.


On Thursday, Gates met top US commanders at a military base near
Fallujah, west of Baghdad, and discussed the recent high-profile
bomb attacks in Baghdad allegedly carried out by the Sunni
militant group.


More than 200 people have died in a series of car bombings since
Wednesday.


On Thursday, a senior US military official said in Washington
that such attacks are expected to continue in the future as Al-
Qaeda aims to destabilise security operations in Baghdad.


"We should have realistic expectations. These high-profile
attacks are going to continue," said Major General Michael
Barbero, the Joint Staff's deputy director for regional
operations.


Barbero said that, after an initial drop in activity, the Sunni
extremist groups were back on the offensive.


On April 12, a suicide bomber penetrated the fortified Green Zone
and blew himself up inside the Iraqi parliament building, killing
a member of parliament and wounding nearly two dozen other
people.


And on Wednesday, in the single bloodiest attack since the March
2003 invasion, 140 people were killed in a suicide car bombing in
Baghdad's Sadriyah marketplace.


Al-Qaeda in Iraq claimed the bombing in parliament and Barbero
said it was assumed to have carried out the other attacks because
car bombs are the group's signature weapon.


"It's, you know, action on our part, and now we're seeing the
reaction on their part," Barbero said. "And it'll be like that
until we can defeat these forces."


Top Democratic lawmaker Harry Reid meanwhile declared that the
war in Iraq "is lost" pointing to the sustained bloodshed in the
country.


"This war is lost, and this surge is not accomplishing anything,
as is shown by the extreme violence in Iraq this week," said
Reid, the Democratic majority leader in the Senate, referring to
the US-led security push in Baghdad.


The Democrats and US President George W. Bush are currently
locked in a bitter feud over emergency war funding.


The Democrats want to include a date for the withdrawal of troops
from Iraq in a bill sanctioning new funds for the war, a move
rejected by Bush who has threatened to veto it.

