

Italy's centre-left is hoping to strengthen its tenuous grip on
power by re- inventing itself, starting with the consolidation of
its two largest parties into a new, reformist Democratic Party.


The former communist Democrats of the Left (DS) and the smaller
centrist Daisy party led by Culture Minister Francesco Rutelli
are both holding their congresses this week, and they plan to
announce the merger plan at the weekend.


The brainchild of Prime Minister Romano Prodi, the Democratic
Party (PD) is being billed not only as a forward-looking strategy
for the centre-left but also as a cure for Italy's chronic
political instability.


The merger is "a historic imperative," DS secretary Piero Fassino
said as his party's congress opened in Florence on Thursday. "The
citizens of Italy are too removed from political life," he told
the some 1,500 delegates, adding that it was "our great
responsibility" to bridge the gap.


Rutelli, who was to kick off the Daisy party congress on Friday,
said this week: "We are setting out with the certainty that what
exists today is not adequate. ... The founding factor is future
reformism."


He added: "The PD will be the first party that instead of
dividing will unite and instead of looking to the past will look
to the future."


The centre-left Union coalition, a nine-party alliance, barely
won last year's elections and is dogged by frequent in-fighting.


On the centre-right, former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's
Forza Italia remains the country's largest and most popular
party.


Advocates of the centre-left merger point to the results of the
hard-fought 2006 polls in which the two parties running together
did well in the lower Chamber of Deputies, scoring 31 percent of
the vote.


Running separately in the Senate race, however, the DS garnered
17.5 percent and Daisy 10.7 percent.


The centre-left's razor-thin victory overall depended on the
splintered remainder of the coalition, made up of communists,
Greens, libertarians and others. The far left has a deep
independent streak that briefly brought down the Prodi government
in February.


The DS and Daisy are expected to launch a joint call for a
constituent assembly for the PD, which Fassino said would be pro-
labour, back the European Union and other international
institutions, and defend the individual and the secular state.


However, birth pangs are already evident.


Political scientist Marco Tarchi told AFP: "This party wants to
merge two very different realities, and that could really
disorient voters. Right now it seems more like a masochistic
exercise than a political strategy."


Fassino faces dissension within his own ranks, where the far left
flank of the DS, led by Higher Education Minister Fabio Mussi, is
spearheading a campaign to break away.


At local assemblies across the country, his motion won 15 percent
support from the some 255,000 delegates who voted, while 75
percent backed Fassino's merger initiative.


"The word 'left' doesn't appear once in the PD manifesto,"
complained a DS member for Rome, Maurizio Bartolucci. "This party
will succeed if it can talk to both the centre and the left, but
right now it is talking mainly to the centre," he told AFP.


Voters do not seem to be warming to the idea. While advocates of
the PD promise to win support from 35 percent of the electorate,
only 23 percent of respondents in a recent opinion poll said they
would vote for it.


Another source of discord is the designation of an heir apparent
to the 67-year- old Prodi.


The favourite seems to be Rome Mayor Walter Veltroni, 51, of the
DS, but a bitter battle is already under way in the wings.


The 57-year-old Fassino, for one, told the weekly L'Espresso: "I
don't think I have less ability than the others. And I maybe even
have more some areas."

