

Three Protestants murdered at a Christian publishing house here
were tortured for three hours before their assailants slit their
throats, a press report said Friday, quoting one of the doctors
involved in the grisly case.


Dr. Murat Ugras, a spokesman for the Turgut Ozal Medical center,
told the daily Hurriyet of hospital surgeons' fruitless efforts
to save Ugur Yuksel, one of the three victims of the massacre at
the Zirve (summit) publishing house, which distributed Christian
literature.


"He had scores of knife cuts on his thighs, his testicles, his
rectum and his back," Ugras said. "His fingers were sliced to the
bone.


"It is obvious that these wounds had been inflicted to torture
him," he said.


The two others who were killed, Necati Aydin, pastor of Malatya's
tiny Protestant community, and German Tilmann Geske, a Malatya
resident with his wife and three children since 2003, were also
tortured, press reports said.


The abuse lasted for three hours as the five men detained at the
crime scene interrogated the three on their missionary
activities, they said.


"We tied their hands and feet and later gagged them," the mass
daily Sabah quoted one of the suspects as telling police.


"Emre slit their throats," said the youth, who was not named,
referring to Emre Gunaydin, the alleged leader of the gang, who
is at the same hospital in serious condition after jumping out of
the publishers' third floor office in a bid to flee police.


Gunaydin, 19, had reportedly made several visits beforehand to
the publishing house to gain the confidence of the people working
there, newspapers said.


The daily Radikal said the German was the first to die and the
two Turks were slaughtered only when police arrived at the door
after receiving a call from a member of the Protestant community
who grew suspicious when he found the office door locked.


Proselityzing is not banned in Muslim, secular Turkey, but is
generally viewed with suspicion.


Newspapers linked the Malatya massacre to other recent attacks
against minorities in Turkey, including the murder last year in
Trabzon of Italian Catholic priest Andrea Santoro and the
assassination in Istanbul in January of Turkish-Armenian
journalist Hrant Dink.


The reports said the killers were believed to be members of a
cell of nationalist-Islamist fanatics recently set up in Malatya
and similar to one based in Trabzon that has been blamed for the
Dink murder.


Newspapers also said three of the five main suspects -- police
have detained 10 people in all -- were taken into custody two
days before the killings for shooting air guns in an empty lot,
but were released after paying a fine.


Geske's wife Suzanna, meanwhile, told a television channel that
she "forgives" her husband's killers and that she intends to stay
on in Malatya, where her husband will be buried.


The killings shocked Turkey and were strongly condemned by the
international community, prompting Germany, which holds the
rotating presidency of the European Union Turkey is seeking to
join, to call on Ankara to take greater measures to protect
religious freedoms.

