

John Daly was lured to China with big dollars in the hope he
would attract huge crowds, but a horror two days of golf saw him
miss the cut at the BMW Asian Open on Friday.


The two-time major winner famous for his "grip-it-and-rip-it"
style of play fell victim to the tree-lined narrow fairways at
the Tomson Pudong Golf Club, and left the course complaining its
tight design made it no fun to play.


"Yesterday I hit the ball great and I shot seven over. It's just
the golf course doesn't suit a guy who hits it long," Daly told
reporters after his second round left him at 11 over for the
tournament.


"It's one of those courses where you have got to go out and hit
four and three irons... that's just not any fun for me."


The 2.3-million-dollar BMW Asian Open is co-sanctioned by the
European and Asian tours, and "Long John" was paid an undisclosed
appearance fee to make a rare venture away from his traditional
hunting ground in the United States.


The 40-year-old American admitted that he had disappointed the
sponsors but insisted he had given 100 percent.


"The fairways were only 10 yards wide where I was hitting it so
it made it tough," he said.


Nevertheless, tournament organisers must have cringed at Daly's
four putt on his second last hole, during which he lazily knocked
a one-inch tap-in another five- feet past the hole.


"It didn't really matter then. I was out of it anyway," he said
when asked if that episode showed he had not given 100 percent.


His rounds of 79 and 76 meant he would miss the weekend action by
a wide margin, with the leaders mid-way through Friday's action
on five under.


With half the field back in the clubhouse, only six players had
posted a worse score.


Daly's Shanghai debacle continues an inglorious year in which the
40-year-old has made just three cuts out of 10 tournaments, with
his world ranking a lowly 231.


But despite his career on the decline, the 1991 US PGA winner and
1995 British Open champion remains a crowd favourite around the
world, with fans attracted to him as much for his off-field
charisma as his spectacularly long driving game.


Sponsors will be hoping for a better performance next week when
he completes his two-tournament mini-tour of China at the Asian
Tour's inaugural Pine Valley Beijing Open.

