

America's Cup organisers and competing teams have come to an
agreement over a new race schedule for the Louis Vuitton Cup, the
challengers' commission said Friday.


Four days and 40 races have been lost due to unseasonally calm
sea conditions and a lack of wind that meant no racing was held
from Monday through to Thursday.


"On Friday April 20th, the first reserve day, Flights 1 and 2 are
scheduled," said a statement on the official America's Cup
website.


"The revised format means the flights of Round Robin One will be
raced in order, and completed, before the beginning of Round
Robin Two."


Organisers said all the lost races will be held, although the
final day of racing might have to be pushed back to May 7 or 8,
however the start of the semi-finals are still scheduled to begin
on May 14th.


Some questions remain unanswered but should be cleared up in
another meeting set for Friday evenig.


One such question is whether or not to hold a rest day between
the two round- robin events, a day usually used to work on the
boats.


"The race programme could still be changed to guarantee the
fundamental principle of navigating in the right conditions is
respected," said Russell Green, one of BMW Oracle's leaders.


One idea put forward by some teams, notably China Team, that was
rejected was the notion that the speed limit of seven knots
should be reduced to five knots.


There is no guarantee that racing will take place on Friday,
though, and further schedule changes may become necessary.


The forecast for Friday is not especially encouraging with blue
skies and light winds again the order of the day yet BMW Oracle's
navigator Peter Isler for one was not discounting possibility of
seeing some action.


"We are optimistic about the chances of holding races on Friday,"
he said.


If racing does go ahead then this first reserve day in the round
robin series will be used by staging Monday's lost programme,
with this week's other lost races slotted in later in the
programme.


Emirates Team New Zealand face a tricky first match against
Italy's Mascalzone Latino-Capitalia which like the Kiwis has
aspirations of making it through to the semi-finals.


America's BMW Oracle has a date with Cup debutants United
Internet Team Germany, with the two other first timers China Team
and South Africa's Team Shosholoza up against Luna Rossa (Italy)
and Victory Challenge (Sweden) respectively.


The round robin stages of the Louis Vuitton are due to run until
May 7 or 8, with the semi-finals scheduled for May 14-25 and the
final on June 1-12.


The winner goes on to challenge Swiss defender Alinghi for the
32nd America's Cup best of nine match series starting from June
23.

