

Finance ministers from the 13-nation eurozone shrugged off the
surging strength of the euro on Friday, keeping their cool as
their shared currency flirted with an all-time high against the
dollar.


"I don't see any particular reason to be excessively concerned"
about the euro's rise, said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude
Juncker as arrived to head a meeting of eurozone finance
ministers.


The ministers were meeting in Berlin as the euro hit the highest
point since December 2004 and nearing its all-time record against
the US currency of 1.3666 dollars.


The prospect of higher interest rates in the eurozone has helped
drive the euro higher against other major currencies as many
investors borrow in low interest rate currencies for higher-
yielding euro-denominated investments.


However, Juncker sounded a note of caution for the second time
this week about such so-called carry trades, warning: "The market
should know that they are ill- advised when they take up one-way
bets.


Despite the steady rise in the shared European currency's value,
finance ministers have been markedly tight lipped since February
when some were more notably outspoken over concerns about the
impact of the currency's strength on exports.


French Finance Minister Thierry Breton has been a notable
exception, commenting frequently on the strength of the euro
which has been a recurring theme in the campaigns for the French
presidential elections.


Even with the euro rising ever higher, the ministers were careful
not to stray from the well-worn position of G7 statements that
excessive exchange rate volatility is "undesirable".


"Our position is very well defined on exchange rates and and is
always the same," said Spanish Finance Minister Pedro Solbes.
"Our main preoccupation should be excess volatility."


Although a stronger euro inevitably has an impact on exports,
many business leaders and politicians say that what is more
important is how fast the currency rises.


"The euro has not appreciated brutally but slowly," said Juncker.


Nevertheless, the last time the euro reached such high levels
against other major currencies in late 2004 and early 2005, its
strength helped derail a nascent economic recovery in Europe.


"Markets are becoming increasingly worried about a replay of the
economic scenario of 2004-2005," said economist Marco Kramer at
Italian bank Unicredit.


"At that time, business sentiment weakened considerably and
stopped the ECB... from starting its hike cycle," he added.


However, he was confident that a full repeat could be avoided
this time because foreign demand for the eurozone's exports
remained strong and because the euro's appreciation has been much
slower than during the last run-up.


The eurozone ministers were due to be joined later in the day by
counterparts from the 27-nation European Union for two-days of
informal talks focusing in part on whether hedge funds need
tougher surveillance or regulation.


"These are matters that we have to discuss in a practical and
workable way and make sure that we maintain public confidence and
at the same time have a good prudential regulatory framework,"
said Irish Finance Minister Brian Cowen.


The meeting's host, Germany, is trying to drum up support for
tightening regulations on hedge funds during its current
presidencies of both the European Union and the G7.


The ministers were also due to discuss value added tax fraud and
better managing of public finances, two recurring themes of their
regular meetings.

