

Frenchman Raphael Jacquelin extended his lead over a high-class
field on day two of the BMW Asian Open here Friday as big-hitting
drawcard John Daly crashed out with a second straight horror
round.


Jacquelin carded a three-under 69 to go into the weekend at nine
under, three clear of South Korea's Lee Sung-Man in second place
and four strokes ahead of a big pack of players that includes
Scotland's Colin Montgomerie.


Jacquelin, who similarly led by three strokes at the halfway mark
of last week's Volvo China Open only to finish tied for sixth,
said he would trust his game to hold up under the pressure this
time.


"I am going to play exactly the same (as last week)," said the 32
-year-old, whose only win as a professional came at the 2005
Madrid Open.


"I think the course is a little more fair this week and if you
miss the fairway, you still have a shot to the green and that
will make a big difference on the weekend."


World number five Ernie Els, the highest ranked player in the co-
sanctioned European and Asian tours event, had a frustrating day
with the putter and was forced to settle for a second consecutive
71 to sit seven shots off the pace.


"I am just not making any putts out there. I am playing OK, just
not scoring," said Els, who nevertheless held out hopes of making
a weekend charge.


"That's why I am here, why I have made the trip, to have a go."


Daly, the charismatic crowd favourite who was lured to China with
big appearance money, was the biggest disappointment of the day
and missed the cut by a huge margin after his 76 left him 11 over
for the tournament.


The two-time major winner famous for his "grip-it-and-rip-it"
style of play fell victim to the tree-lined, narrow fairways at
the Tomson Pudong Golf Club, and left the course complaining its
tight design made it no fun to play.


"It's one of those courses where you have got to go out and hit
four and three irons... that's just not any fun for me," Daly
said.


The 40-year-old American admitted that he had disappointed the
sponsors and the Chinese fans hoping to see more of him at the
weekend, but insisted he had given 100 percent.


Another two-time major winner who failed to fire was world number
eight Retief Goosen, who shot a 74 on Friday to sit at one over.


However, with the cut at two-over, the South African just scraped
into the weekend.


Defending champion Gonzalo Fernandez-Castano of Spain also limped
into Saturday action, with a second round of 72 placing him
alongside Goosen at one over.


Other notable players still in line for a major share of the 2.3
million dollars in prize money on offer include 2004 Asian Open
champion Miguel Angel Jimenez, with the Spaniard placed alongside
Montgomerie at five under.


The other players tied for third are Australia's Scott Hend,
Soren Kjeldsen from Denmark and Sweden's Joakim Backstrom.


For the Asian contingent it was a mostly bleak affair, with
Thailand's Prayad Marksaeng at three under the only other player
from the region aside from South Korea's Lee to be on the
leaderboard.


China's two top players, Liang Wenchong and Zhang Liangwei, were
both at two over to just survive into the weekend.

