

Bandits in Paraguay released a Japanese member of Sun Myung
Moon's Unification Church and two locals on Friday after nearly
three weeks in captivity and a reported ransom payment.


An armed group of bandits demanding a ransom snatched two
Japanese members of the church and two locals at the beginning of
the month in Caaguazu, about 200 kilometres (120 miles) east of
the capital Asuncion.


The church said the armed group had released Hirokazu Ota, 62,
along with a Paraguayan policeman and his girlfriend, seized when
they witnessed the kidnapping, after 19 days in captivity.


Ota is the president of Victoria S.A., a company that manages the
controversial church's assets in Paraguay.


Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso welcomed the safe release of
the abductees in the porous crime-ridden area on the borders with
Brazil and Argentina.


"I would like to express my heartfelt joy for the victims, their
families and all other people concerned," Aso said in the
statement.


"The government of Japan at this occasion strongly condemns
kidnapping as a contemptible act."


The two local captives were police officer Rafael Ramos Balmori
and his girlfriend Nancy Gimenez, who teaches at a school outside
Asuncion.


Ota's secretary, Sawako Takayama, was also kidnapped but released
earlier this month as a "proof of life" as the bandits pressed
for 500,000 dollars to free the boss.


The church and government officials declined to comment on
whether any ransom was paid.


Japan's Tokyo Broadcasting System reported from Paraguay that a
total of 300,000 dollars was paid for the release of both Ota and
his secretary.


The Unification Church in Tokyo was informed of their release in
a call from an employee of the company, said church spokesman
Tomohisa Ota.


"Mr. Ota himself had called up the company and told them he and
the two Paraguayans were all safe," Ota said.


Japanese vice foreign minister Takeshi Iwaya said that the freed
trio were heading back to the Paraguayan capital.


Prosecutors had been offering a 20,000-dollar reward for
information on Ota's whereabouts and an elite Paraguayan unit was
deployed this week to patrol the tri-border region, a haven for
smugglers and other criminals.


But the Unification Church in Paraguay earlier this week urged
the police to step aside and negotiated with the bandits itself.

