

North Korea said Friday it is holding "brisk" negotiations to
settle a banking dispute and will start shutting down its nuclear
programme as soon as a settlement is reached.


The North will invite UN atomic agency inspectors "the moment the
actual defreezing of the frozen funds in the bank has been
confirmed," official media said.


It was the second time in a week that the communist state has
pledged to start shutting down its Yongbyon reactor as soon as
the dispute over 25 million dollars which had been frozen in
Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA) is resolved.


The North committed itself to shutting down and sealing Yongbyon
in the presence of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
inspectors, under the first phase of a February 13 six-nation
disarmament pact.


The North "still remains unchanged in its will to implement the
February 13 agreement, but what matters is that it cannot move as
the issue of frozen funds has not yet been completely settled,"
the Korean Central News Agency reported.


It said it was quoting a message sent Friday by Ri Je-Son, head
of the country's atomic energy department, to IAEA chief Mohamed
ElBaradei.


The agency said the message responded to an IAEA request on April
17 to send a delegation to North Korea.


"Working negotiations are now brisk between a DPRK (North Korea)
bank and (BDA) to settle the issue," the message said.


"The DPRK is ready to invite the above-said delegation of the
IAEA the moment the actual defreezing of the frozen funds in the
bank has been confirmed and discuss the issues of suspending the
operation of the nuclear facility in Yongbyon and verifying and
monitoring procedures," it said.


The US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005, alleging that
some of the North Korean accounts there were the proceeds of
money-laundering and counterfeiting.


In an effort to make progress on the nuclear issue, the United
States said last month the funds had been unfrozen. It announced
last week the money is available for collection.

