

Australian share prices are expected to again push into record
territory next week but the market's current growth rate is
unsustainable and any bad news could spark a correction, dealers
said Friday.


The benchmark SP/ASX 200 ended the week up 71.8 points or 1.2
percent at 6,207.5 after hitting a record close of 6,236.9
Wednesday.


Commsec chief equities economist Craig James said the sharemarket
was delicately poised.


"The current growth pace for the sharemarket can't be sustained
and it would only take a few pieces of bad news -- ala late
February -- to take a few hundred points off key indices," he
said.


"Having said that, the sharemarket is fundamentally well
supported, private equity interest still abounds and the
sharemarket is supported by superannuation (pension fund)
inspired inflows to June 30.


"Overall, we expect the sharemarket to remain solid through to
mid year before flattening over the following six months."


James said the Australian market was likely to follow Wall
Street's lead, although domestic inflation figures due out
Tuesday would generate considerable interest.


"Inflation data is very much in the spotlight in the coming week,
not only because the data only comes around once every three
months but because it will determine whether interest rates will
rise in May," he said.


He expected inflation to rise 0.5 percent in the March quarter,
dragging the annual inflation rate down from 3.3 percent to 2.9
percent.


He said the figures were unlikely to prompt the Reserve Bank to
lift interest rates.


ANZ Bank fixed income analyst Patricia Gacis said the inflation
figures would be a major factor in the central bank's
deliberations at its monthly monetary policy meeting on May 1.


"Markets are currently pricing in around a 60 percent chance of a
rate rise in the May RBA meeting," he said.


"We think that the chance of a RBA rate rise will fall markedly
if the core CPI outcome comes in at or below 0.6 percent."


The market will be closed next Wednesday for the Anzac Day public
holiday.

