

Heavy fighting between Ethiopian forces and Islamist insurgents
resumed in the Somali capital Friday with exchanges of machine-
gun fire and mortar shells, witnesses said.


Ethiopian forces fired mortar shells from the presidential palace
in southern Mogadishu at insurgents in the north of the city, who
fired back, an AFP correspondent said.


"The fighting has resumed, we can hear machine-gun fire. The
Ethiopians are firing mortar shells," said Fahad Gutale, a
resident of Ex-Control area in northern Mogadishu.


"Artillery shells are landing everywhere."


There were no immediate reports of casualties as the area
remained inaccessible.


On Thursday, fighting claimed the lives of at least nine
civilians and wounded several others after mortar shells landed
at a bus station in southern Mogadishu.


Ethiopian forces also blocked a key road after a suspected
suicide bomber attacked their base south of the capital late
Thursday, trapping fleeing civilians.


Four days of fighting that broke out late last month was the
worst violence in Mogadishu for 15 years and efforts to agree a
lasting ceasefire have been dogged by clashes.


Elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan have accused the
Ethiopians of refusing to withdraw from the frontline, attacking
the insurgents and shattering a fragile ceasefire.


Elders have said at least 1,000 people have died and more than
4,000 have been wounded in the fighting. The UN refugee agency
said more than 200,000 have fled Mogadishu in the past two
months.


The UN humanitarian office said government forces were choking
relief supplies, UN aircraft were being shot at, corpses were
lying in the streets of the capital, while a cholera or diarrhoea
epidemic was taking hold and new flooding was likely soon.


"We are extremely anxious to reach the displaced population
especially since most of them are women and children under the
age of 14. These are the most vulnerable people in any
community," said Christian Balslev-Olesen, the UNICEF Somalia
representative, said in a statement.


"And so we reiterate our call to all parties involved in the
conflict to do everything within their power to allow us to reach
those who need our assistance the most," he added.

