

US mining giant Newmont voiced confidence Friday it would win a
controversial pollution trial next week, saying claims the
company and one of its executives poisoned an Indonesian bay were
baseless.


Newmont executive Richard Ness said the prosecution's case
against him and the Indonesian unit of the company had been "torn
apart" during the 20-month trial closely watched by foreign
investors.


An Indonesian court is expected to rule Tuesday on whether
Newmont and Ness polluted Buyat Bay in northern Sulawesi with
arsenic and mercury from its now defunct gold mine on the island.


They are also accused of sickening villagers and killing marine
life around Manado where the mine was sited, around 2,300
kilometres (1,400 miles) northeast of Jakarta.


Ness, who heads PT Newmont Minahasa Raya, the Indonesian
subsidiary of the Denver-based company, faces three years in
prison if convicted while the company would receive a fine.


"When you look through this whole trial process, starting with
the prosecution's witnesses, I think almost every one of them
failed to be convincing or their testimony was torn apart by our
lawyers," Ness said.


"Our lawyers then systematically proved ... that the bay was not
polluted, that the water was fine, that the fish were fine," he
told reporters.


The highly-charged case against Newmont, the world's largest gold
miner, has pitted environmentalists against mining firms, and the
verdict could impact on foreign investment which Indonesia needs
to fuel its economy.


Ness reiterated Friday that Newmont, which has been mining in
mineral-rich Indonesia for more than a decade, could rethink its
operations here if he or the company was found guilty.


"I can't speak for the whole corporation but I can say what our
chairman has already stated, he said that anything short of a
whole exoneration, they would have to reconsider their position
(here)," he said.


Newmont has consistently denied the charges, saying it disposed
of toxins safely and that levels of mercury and arsenic found
around the mine were well within acceptable levels.


Studies of the waters around Buyat Bay have shown conflicting
results. A World Health Organisation-backed report found no
evidence of pollution but government tests showed high level of
toxins.


Budi Haryanto, an epidemiologist at the University of Indonesia,
said a government study he worked on showed arsenic levels in
villagers' urine and in their nails could be linked to toxins in
their well.


"Results of this study were never formally released to the
public," he said.


The Indonesian Center for Environmental Law said it hoped judges
would not be swayed by the intense interest in the case.


"We hope the judges will show their independence and make a fair
decision based on evidence that has been presented in the court,"
said Dyah Paramita from the centre.


Ness was also hoping for a "fair and reasonable verdict" from the
panel of five judges after three years of legal wrangling over
the case.


"Our lawyers have proved that Buyat Bay was not polluted," he
said.


"The (prosecution) only had one doctor and she retracted her
testimony early on so I don't see there's any evidence left
standing," Ness said.


"... therefore the allegations are baseless," he said.


Newmont agreed in February last year to spend 30 million dollars
in environmental monitoring of the area, as part of an out-of-
court settlement in a civil lawsuit with the Indonesian
government.


In December 2004 Buyat Bay villagers dropped a multi-million
dollar lawsuit against Newmont.

