

Greek police are preparing a massive mobilisation to deal with an
expected 50,000 football fans -- including many English
supporters -- expected to travel to Athens for the Champions
League final on May 23, a police source said on Friday.


Around 35,000 fans with tickets for the final will be escorted by
police directly to the Olympic Stadium, the police source said
after an emergency meeting between the public order ministry and
Athens municipal officials.


But the 15,000 fans travelling to Athens without tickets to the
final, who will be permitted to move freely around Athens, will
have their movements shadowed by riot police, the source said.


Around 15,000 police officers will be mobilised for the event, in
an operation rarely seen since Athens hosted the 2004 Olympics.


Greek authorities fear hooliganism incidents as three of the four
clubs currently in the semi-finals are from England, and English
fans have a history of being involved in trouble abroad.


Chelsea and Liverpool face off for a place in the final, while
Manchester United take on Italy's AC Milan for the remaining
berth.


Known as the 'tifosi', Italian fans also have a rowdy reputation,
and there is concern that visiting fans will get into run-ins
with Greek hooligans, whose reaction is an unknown factor.


"Let's prepare the holy oil for extreme unction," Greek Public
Order Minister Vyron Polydoras said at the meeting, according to
state TV NET.


Other measures for the final include a 24-hour guard posted
around stadiums and hotels where referees, club officials and
sponsors will be staying.


British police are also expected to be on hand to provide
assistance.


Greece is currently facing a resurgence of hooligan violence
despite a spate of measures and tougher legislation introduced to
combat a phenomenon that has plagued Greek sport for decades.


Last month, a 25-year-old fan died in an arranged pitched battle
between around 300 hooligans of Greek arch-rivals Olympiakos
Pireaus and Panathinaikos Athens, causing widespread outrage in
the country.


The government declared a two-week ban on team sports to let
tempers cool off, but the resumption of football matches over the
weekend saw more violence.

