

Thailand's army-backed prime minister is hoping an office revamp
will boost his flagging political fortunes, a report said Friday.


Prime Minister Suyarud Chulanont, who came to power after a
September coup, has rearranged Government House in a bid to boost
the embattled junta, the Bangkok Post said.


The facelift has been carried out to conform to the principles of
feng shui, the ancient Chinese practice of arranging buildings
and objects to achieve harmony with the environment, the daily
said.


A fountain has been installed outside his office, pot plants with
auspicious names have been placed around the building, and cats'
eyes -- reflective road studs -- have been put in the main
driveway, it said.


All pictures of former prime ministers, including Surayud's
deposed predecessor, Thaksin Shinawatra, who has remained in
self-exile abroad since the putsch, have also been removed from
the building, the paper said.


The government confirmed there had been an "adjusting of the
landscape," but denied it was along the lines of feng shui.


"I don't think it was initiated by the prime minister to boost
his popularity," deputy government spokesman Nattawat Suttiyotin
said. "He would choose another way to do this -- for example, by
working hard."


Surayud's government has been heavily criticised over a number of
policy miscues, including poor economic management and escalating
violence in the kingdom's restive Muslim-majority south.


Allies of Thaksin are expected to hold a major rally against the
junta later this month.


Protesters are also likely to voice opposition to the kingdom's
draft constitution, unveiled by the junta on Wednesday.


It is not the first time the country's leaders have looked to
feng shui.


Thaksin's political party, Thai Rak Thai (Thais Love Thais), was
also reported to have rearranged its offices according to feng
shui in the hope of reversing its fortunes last year.


The rearrangement was done in the midst of street protests
demanding Thaksin's resignation over alleged abuse of power and
corruption.


Thaksin also regularly consulted the heavens to help him make
major policy decisions, his former astrologer Samrit Klaokliang
told the Nation newspaper last year.

