

A suspected radical Islamist leader was killed and two others
including a police officer were wounded in a pre-dawn shootout in
Serbia's tense south on Friday, the interior ministry said.


The shooting broke out shortly before 5:00 am (0300 GMT) in Donja
Trnava village near Novi Pazar, the main town in the heavily
Muslim populated Sandzak region, the ministry said.


Police acting on a tip-off had tried to arrest the leader as part
of a crackdown on suspected Wahhabi Muslim extremists.


Police opened fire on the house after hand grenades were thrown
at them, killing one of the suspected radicals and wounding
another, said the interior ministry, adding that one police
officer was injured and one of the suspects was arrested.


"When police approached the house, 10 dogs were released on them,
and when they tried to enter the house the (offenders) threw
grenades and opened fire" on them, the ministry said in a
statement as quoted by local news agencies.


"One police officer was injured and the owner of the house
suffered scrapnel wounds," it said.


"Members of the terrorist group, while trying to escape, shot at
police and continued to throw grenades," said the statement,
adding that police returned fire.


Killed in the clash was the alleged leader of the group, 28-year-
old Ismail Prentic, while Senad Ramovic, 34, was wounded and
Safet Bechirovich, 59, was arrested, it added.


Ramovic underwent emergency surgery on serious wounds at a local
hospital, while the police officer was released after being
treated for minor injuries, said state-run Tanjug news agency.


Police had targetted the radical Islamists over suspicions they
were planning "terrorist" attacks, reports said.


Wahhabis, or Salafis, are followers of an orthodox movement in
Sunni Islam, who insist that their beliefs are simply pure Islam
as practiced by the first three generations of Muslims.


The shootout comes a month after Serbian police arrested five
Wahhabi Muslims who were suspected of planning attacks in the
country after a raid on a camp near the Sandzak region's Velika
Ninaja mountain.


At the time of arrest, police seized munitions, bombs, ID cards
and what they said was terrorist propaganda from a cave. They are
in detention awaiting trial in a case that has been declared a
state secret.


Authorities have blamed the radicalisation of Sandzak, whose
420,000 population is 45 percent Muslim, on tensions between two
of the region's rival Muslim political parties.

