

Nepalese police failed to stop the massacre of at least 27 Maoist
supporters by ethnic activists last month, the United Nations
human rights body said Friday.


The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human
Rights (UNOHCHR) also called for a government investigation into
the violence in the south of the country, which has cast a shadow
over the country's peace process.


Police "failed to stop the violence when it broke out. They
failed to protect those who came under attack, and they failed to
carry out any arrests," the UNOHCHR representative in Kathmandu,
Lena Sundh, said.


The violence on March 21 broke out when supporters of both the
Mahadhesi People's Rights Forum (MJF), an ethnic activist group,
and Maoists tried to stage a rally in the southern town of Gaur.


Clashes broke out, and the outnumbered Maoists were attacked by
mobs of people armed with split bamboo poles and sticks. Most of
the victims were beaten to death, and two Maoist supporters
remain missing nearly a month after the attack, the UN report
said.


The Maoists, who struck a peace deal with central government last
year and ended their 10-year insurgency, have said that the
attack on their supporters was premeditated, and involved armed
groups from neighbouring India.


Maoists have also accused King Gyanendra and his supporters of
backing the ethnic group in an effort to undermine the peace
deal, which could see the country ditch the monarchy.


The UN found that hundreds of MJF supporters had armed themselves
with lengths of split bamboo, prior to the clash with the former
rebels.


"The OHCHR was not able to substantiate allegations that the
killings themselves were pre-planned but this cannot be ruled
out," Sundh told reporters at the release of a UN report into the
killings.


Although the government has announced that it will investigate
the killings, to date, little has been done to bring culprits to
justice, Sundh said.


"A prime obligation of the state is to carry out immediate and
thorough investigations into the killings," the rights official
said.


At least 60 people have been killed in unrest since January in
Nepal's southern plains region bordering India.


Home to around half of Nepal's population, the Terai region is
known as the country's bread basket and has traditionally been
under-represented in national politics.


Mahadhesi protests escalated in January after Maoist activists
shot and killed an MJF supporter who was imposing a road
blockade.

