

Ivan Basso's chances of competing in the Tour de France could be
blighted by his implication in the Spanish doping affair which
cast a shadow over most of the 2006 cycling season.


Italian ace Basso and Germany's Jan Ullrich were among dozens of
cyclists implicated in 'Operation Puerto', which uncovered an
alleged blood doping and doping network run by a doctor,
Eufemiano Fuentes, in Spain.


Both riders were among over a dozen banned from racing last
year's Tour de France, which also ended in controversy when
American winner Floyd Landis tested positive for testosterone on
stage 17.


Although Spanish legal authorities said most of those implicated
in Operation Puerto have no case to answer, the International
Cycling Union (UCI) has indicated that their investigation into
the affair is far from over.


The UCI's bid to get to the bottom of the affair was boosted
recently when a DNA test matched blood found in Fuentes' Madrid
laboratory with Ullrich, who has claimed he is innocent and since
retired from the sport.


It proved a turning point for newly-installed Tour de France
chief Christian Prudhomme, who is determined to avoid the kind of
controversy which deflated 2006's edition before it had even
started.


"The information from Germany concerning Jan Ullrich has put it
(Operation Puerto) right back into the spotlight," Prudhomme told
L'Equipe newspaper, which made the story front page news on
Friday.


"And naturally, the level of suspicion on the riders implicated
has been pushed up a notch.


"The German legal authorities attributed nine bags of blood to
Ullrich, which shows that in this affair it is possible to find
out answers to questions.


"The sport just cannot allow cyclists who are still implicated in
this affair to start the Tour de France if suspicion still hangs
over them."


After being cleared of the Italian sports authorities of any
wrongdoing, Basso - last year's Tour of Italy champion - was
released by his team, CSC.


He later joined the former team of Lance Armstrong, Discovery
Channel, and normally the Italian would be saddling up as a hot
favourite for this year's Tour de France, which begins July 7 in
London.


Prudhomme said he has already contacted the American team, and
the other teams with riders implicated in the affair.


But he added: "I can't say any more. They (the teams) have
promised to get back to us, and if they don't then we will meet
with them next week before the Fleche Wallonne (April 25)."


Prudhomme said he hoped the team managers concerned, including
Discovery Channel's Johan Bruyneel, would "do what is right for
the good of the sport".


"We will only get to the end of this if we all work in unison,"
added the Frenchman, who said wants to work closely with the UCI
and the World Anti Doping Agency to get to the bottom of
Operation Puerto.


"But we have outlined to Johan Bruyneel what seems to us the
right path to take."


Prudhomme suggested the Tour de France, which played a pivotal
role in forcing teams to suspend suspect riders from last year's
race, would be more forceful this time round if teams do not play
ball.


Asked how he would feel if a rider implicated in the affir turned
up at the start line, Prudhomme was unequivocal.


"Before that happens, we will know how to deal with it," he said.


"The Tour was sullied last year, and that won't happen again."

