

A prominent Vietnamese Zen master living in exile on Friday took
his message of post-war reconciliation to thousands of Buddhist
faithful at a hillside pagoda near Hanoi.


Thich Nhat Hanh, an 81-year-old monk, led prayers for the
millions of war dead from both sides of the conflict, during his
second return visit since he was exiled four decades ago by the
then US-backed Saigon regime.


"Our country and nation suffered so much in the years of fighting
for independence and freedom, and you were the ones who suffered
the most," Hanh said in a prayer addressing the souls of those
who died.


"It is fortunate that the nightmare is over, the country is at
peace and the nation has the chance to rebuild," he said as a
misty rain fell on thousands of faithful who came to the Soc
temple north of the capital.


Hanh's visit has been watched closely by the communist
government, which keeps a tight check on all political and
religious activity, and has also drawn fire from other Buddhist
groups who charge the trip legitimises the regime.


Hanh, a life-long peace activist, was barred from Vietnam by both
the former southern regime and the post-1975 communist government
and has since built an international following from his monastery
in France.


In his address Friday, the start of a three day chanting
ceremony, he urged all Vietnamese to "love each other as people
of the same blood" regardless of whether they hail from the north
or south.


"From now on," the monk added, "we will try to build a real
democratic society to solve all disagreements in a peaceful and
democratic way, not to engage in violence and fighting between
people of the same nation."


Hanh first returned to Vietnam two years ago on a trip criticised
by the banned Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, whose leaders
are under house arrest and who charge that Hanoi is using Hanh's
visits for propaganda purposes.


Hanh has invited Vietnam's president to attend his prayer
meetings, including previous mass events in Ho Chi Minh City and
Hue.


No government leaders came, but this week Nguyen Huu Oanh, deputy
head of the government's Committee for Religious Affairs, praised
Hanh in comments published by the state-run Vietnam News Agency.


At the Soc pagoda, followers said they appreciated Hanh's
unifying message.


"It's good to pray for the souls of the war dead, no matter where
they came from -- north or south, communist or not," said 63
-year-old Nguyen Thanh Vien, a retired state employee.


Nguyen Thi Van, a 50-year-old housewife, said her brother died in
1975 in a battle in the southern province of Tay Ninh.


"After today," she said, "I hope that the soul of my brother, and
of my other sisters and brothers who died young, will really rest
in peace."

