

The two Koreas Friday pressed on with talks about rice aid and
joint projects, despite a stormy previous session when the
South's pleas to the North to start denuclearising prompted a
brief walkout.


North Korea's chief delegate Chu Dong-Chan stormed out of the
room Thursday in protest at the South's call but the talks later
went on as scheduled, according to media pool reports from
Pyongyang.


The impoverished North, facing severe food shortages, wants an
unconditional commitment from the South to provide an annual
400,000 tons of rice aid and says political issues should not be
raised at the economic talks.


But Seoul may link rice to progress on denuclearisation after the
North missed an April 14 deadline to start the process.


"We stressed the potential negative impact of the North's failure
to carry out the agreement. I think we have to decide on rice aid
given the direction of the talks," Kim Joong-Tae, spokesman for
the South's delegation, said Thursday night.


"We will do our best to hold sincere talks with the North for the
remainder of the meeting."


At talks Friday the two sides exchanged drafts of a joint
statement to be issued at the end of the four-day meeting on
Saturday, according to the reports.


"Basically, every topic worth discussing was dealt with," said
the spokesman, when asked whether rice was addressed.


Seoul suspended its regular annual shipment of 400,000 tons of
rice after the North's missile tests last July. Relations soured
further after its October nuclear test but improved when the
North returned to six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


Under the first phase of a February six-nation nuclear
disarmament deal, the North was supposed by last Saturday to have
made moves to shut down and seal its Yongbyon reactor, which
produces the raw material for plutonium to make bombs.


It missed the deadline because of delays in freeing up 25 million
dollars of North Korean funds that had been frozen in a Macau
bank at US instigation, on suspicion of money-laundering and
counterfeiting.


The United States said the money was made available last week,
but there has been no word on when or how the cash will be
withdrawn.


At the talks in Pyongyang North Korea proposed setting up a
branch of a North Korean bank at a joint industrial zone in its
border city of Kaesong to ease financial settlements.


"The bank issue was not raised before. (South Korea's) Woori Bank
has a branch at the industrial complex, but the two Koreas have
no agreement to establish a North Korean bank to trade with the
Woori Bank branch," Kim told reporters.


Currently, some 13,000 workers are employed by 22 South Korean
firms at Kaesong, producing labour-intensive products such as
garments and kitchenware.


South Korea is also pushing for test runs on two cross-border
railway lines in May.


In his speech Thursday the chief North Korean delegate suggested
that the two Koreas promote joint projects to exploit natural
resources in Russia's far east, and build joint chemical plants
in the North's free economic zone.

