

Libya's National Oil Corporation and US firm Dow Chemical have
announced a joint venture to operate and expand the Ras Lanuf
petrochemical complex in Libya, the NOC said on Friday.


"The partnership will bring a respected global company and its
expertise together with a proven national enterprise to upgrade
and produce world-grade products while enhancing the technical
abilities of the Libyan workforce," NOC president Shukri Ghanem
said in a statement.


It said Dow Chemical was the first major international firm to
participate in such economic development of Libya's petrochemical
industry.


Ras Ranuf, on the Mediterranean coast 600 kilometres (370 miles)
east of the capital Tripoli, is the country's most important
petrochemical complex and was built in the 1980s.


Enhancements at Ras Lanuf "will position the joint venture for
future growth as a world-class supplier of polyethylene and
polypropylene," the statement said.


"This venture is consistent with Dow's strategy to grow its
position in basic plastics and chemicals through joint ventures,"
it quoted Dow Chemical's chairman and CEO Andrew Liveris as
saying.


"Our participation in the partnership with NOC at Ras Lanuf will
benefit from an advantaged strategic location on the
Mediterranean and competitive feedstock," he said.


The joint venture agreement encompasses Ras Lanuf's existing
naphtha cracker, two polyethylene production facilities and
associated infrastructure.


Ras Lanuf's exisiting naphtha cracker produces 330,000 tonnes of
ethylene a year.


The project will include refurbishing and expanding the existing
units, followed by construction of an ethane cracker and
additional polyethylene and polypropylene facilities.


Later phases will include building additional hydrocarbon,
plastics and chemical production facilities based on natural gas.


Libya is Africa's second largest oil producer at 1.7 million
barrels per day. It also has reserves of natural gas estimated at
1.314 billion square metres.


Dow Chemical, operating in 175 countries and employing 43,000
people, has annual sales of 49 billion dollars.

