

Governments, hotels and major tourism operators must take the
lead in boosting environmentally-friendly tourism, which has yet
to make a major impact on the industry, experts said at a UN-
backed conference on climate change Friday.


The industry was slow to adopt sustainable environmental
practices because the sector was huge, fragmented, and covered
small operators preoccupied with earning a living rather than
thinking about preserving the environment, they said.


That was why big players such as governments, airlines and hotels
should take the lead, according to industry experts attending the
final day of the UN-backed Business Summit for the Environment in
Singapore.


"A lot of the people who are in tourism, they are very poor
people from villages," said Anthony Wong, managing director of
Malaysia-based Asian Overland Services Tours and Travel.


"They are small operators -- they can be boat operators, they can
be small hotel operators. These people don't have a worldwide
view, they are not aware of the negative side of travel," he told
AFP after speaking at the conference.


"What they want to do is just earn a living... They cannot think
too deep, too wide. So it is up to the association, the
government and the big players to lead and push it down to the
suppliers, the agents, the transport operators," Wong said.


More than 100 million people were employed in the tourism
industry in the Asia Pacific region, he said.


Wong, also on the board of the Pacific Asia Travel Association,
said increasing awareness of climate change could push the
tourism industry to accelerate acceptance of sustainable
environmental practices.


This still might take another 20 years, he said.


"We have to start now. It is not a happy situation," he said.


Rachel Dodds, a specialist in sustainable tourism and assistant
professor at Ryerson University in Toronto, said one of the
industry's challenges was that once a development was built, it
could not easily be undone.


Many industry players are also focused on earnings.


But Dodds said the situation was changing as consumers
increasingly want a more unique holiday experience.


"They don't want to sit on the beach with 5,000 other people.
They want something clean," she told AFP.


"You can have the best service in a hotel.... but if you go
outside and the beach is dirty, there is no experience."


The cruise liner business was one tourism sector in which
environmental standards could be implemented, Dodds said, citing
reports of cruise ships dumping sewage at sea.


She referred to a study showing that of the 100 worst companies
in the United States, six were tourism firms. Five of those were
cruise lines.


As a late bloomer in the industry, China was in a position to
lead the way for responsible tourism development, said Claire
Chiang, senior vice president of Singapore-based luxury resort
developer Banyan Tree Holdings.


With 25 million people travelling to cities within the country
each year, and its fast-paced economic growth, tourism in China
could either help destroy the environment or preserve it, she
told the conference.


"With them developing so late, they can learn all the bad
practices, not repeat them and do better," Chiang said.


Tourism and preservation of the environment could go together,
she added. Banyan Tree's Ringha resort in Tibet used discarded
materials from local people dismantling their lodges to build
newer, more modern homes.


"You're definitely going to take something from nature. But the
issue next is how do we restore and rehabilitate," she said.

