

Sri Lanka are drawing inspiration from their 1996 World Cup
victory ahead of their likely match-up with New Zealand in the
next week's semi-finals.


Sri Lanka stunned India in a group game in 1996, beating them
again in the semi- final before going on to lift the trophy.


Romesh Kaluwitharana, the former wicketkeeper-batsman who played
in 1996, said winning against India in the group game was a huge
morale booster when they met again in Calcutta.


"No one in India gave us a chance", Kaluwitharana recalled. "I
see similarities here. We have beaten New Zealand quite
comprehensively and that should give the boys a load of
confidence for the semi-final."


The explosive opener, who partnered Sanath Jayasuriya in
inventing pinch hitting in the 1996 World Cup, said that Kiwi hit
man Shane Bond's pace should not worry the Sri Lankan batsmen too
much in Jamaica.


"Our batsmen love the ball coming onto the bat as they are free-
flowing stroke makers".


Kumara Dharmasena, a former off-spinner and another member of the
1996 champion outfit, said the Sri Lankans should take a lot of
heart from their Super Eights win against New Zealand.


"We were all set and brimming with confidence when we won the
first round game against India and then met them in the semi-
final," Dharmasena said, echoing his team-mate Kaluwitharana's
sentiments.


"Our bowling came out on top against all opposition in the Super
Eight games. This should give the Kiwis more than a few jitters.
Our bowlers never allowed New Zealand to break free," Dharmasena,
now an umpire, said.


The Kiwis mustered a modest 219 before the Sri Lankans romped
home by six wickets.


Both Kaluwitharana and Dharmasena agreed that although the 1996
side's batting line-up looked stronger, the 2007 team's superior
bowling could take them to a second World Cup win.


It is almost certain that Sri Lanka will play New Zealand in
Jamaica next Tuesday in the first semi-final, barring a huge
victory by New Zealand over Australia Friday.

