

Fiji's coup leader appeared Friday to back away from a European
Union statement that his regime had given a firm commitment to
hold elections and restore democracy within two years.


The EU said Voreqe Bainimarama's regime had agreed to hold
elections by March 1, 2009 following talks with the bloc in
Brussels.


The bloc had threatened to suspend millions of dollars of aid
unless Fiji's military regime agreed to respect human rights and
restore democracy quickly following December's bloodless coup.


Bainimarama had earlier announced plans to hold elections within
three years but after talks between Fijian and EU officials, the
military regime had given several undertakings, according to the
EU.


"Fiji undertook to return to democracy and have parliamentary
elections in less than 24 months," a statement released through
the European Commission Delegation to the Pacific office in Fiji
said.


But Bainimarama said that the regime had agreed only to review
its three-year timetable.


Any commitment would be subject to the findings of a team
appointed by a regional grouping, the Pacific Islands Forum, on a
timetable for a return to democracy.


"We will be willing to review the period of 36 months in the
context of the outcome of this independent assessment,"
Bainimarama said in a statement.


He said apart from the timing of elections, the commitments
sought by the EU were in line with undertakings offered by Fiji.
He said the assessment results were expected by the end of June.


According to the EU statement following the Brussels talks on
Wednesday and Thursday, Fiji had also agreed to lift emergency
regulations next month and to guarantee the independence of the
judiciary.


"The European Union will continue and deepen the political
dialogue with Fiji to ensure the earliest possible restoration of
respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of
law."


The agreement should avoid the loss to Fiji of development aid
worth 100 million euros (136 million dollars), the bloc said.

