

Prime Minister Tony Blair said Friday that Britain no longer
needs to hold a referendum on a new European Union treaty, which
the EU is battling to agree to replace its all-but-dead
constitution.


The confirmation, made in an interview with a group of European
newspapers, will likely be seen as a U-turn by eurosceptic
critics following a previous commitment to holding a popular vote
on the treaty.


The 27-member bloc is grappling to find a compromise in time for
an EU summit in Brussels in June, which will be Blair's last
international date before he leaves office.


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making in
an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was rejected
in referendums in France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Those "no" votes were widely seen as good news for Blair, who had
promised a British referendum on the constitution despite polls
suggesting eurosceptic Britons would massively reject it.


Senior ministers had previously indicated it was highly unlikely
that Britain would hold a referendum on the issue, but Blair had
not previously explicitly said so.


The premier earlier this week backed a Dutch proposal for the EU
to push for changes to existing treaties rather than a whole new
constitution, an idea aimed at easing popular fears of a European
superstate.


He also said that "we cannot bring back the constitutional
treaty" after the French and Dutch "no" votes.


Asked in the interview with newspapers including Britain's
Financial Times Friday if the treaty he favoured would require a
referendum, Blair replied: "No.


"If it's not a constitutional treaty, so that it alters the basic
relationship between Europe and the member states, then there
isn't the same case for a referendum."


He added that the British government is "going to get attacked
whatever we do, but Europe needs to do it to move forward."


EU leaders are to meet on June 21-22, where Blair expects them to
agree "the basic outline agreement for a treaty."


Eurosceptics say they are trying to revive the constitution "by
the back door," retaining its main reforms while simply removing
the word "constitution" from its title.


The ill-fated institutional blueprint notably agreed on creating
a post of EU foreign minister, a longer-term presidency and
streamlined voting systems to prevent gridlock in the expanding
bloc.


Blair insisted that his likely successor -- finance minister
Gordon Brown, widely seen as more eurosceptic -- agreed with him
that a referendum would not be needed so long as a new EU treaty
does not amount to a constitution.


From a British political perspective, Blair's public confirmation
that a referendum is no longer necessary could be seen as a way
of forcing Brown into maintaining that line after he takes
office.


But Blair insisted the pair -- widely seen as being at
loggerheads for years -- were reading from the same page: "When
we come to the June council, we will come with the position of
the government."


Brown is "pro-Europe and pro-reform and he wants change in Europe
-- quite rightly," said Blair.


Blair is expected by many political observers to announce his
resignation after local elections in England, Scotland and Wales
on May 3 and the expected revival of self-rule in Northern
Ireland on May 8.

