

More than 30 civilians have been killed and 200 wounded in two
days of fighting between Ethiopian troops and Islamist insurgents
in the Somali capital, elders said Friday.


"The fighting is continuing and casualties are increasing day-by-
day," said Husein Said Korgab, the spokesman for the Hawiye clan,
which is dominant in Mogadishu.


"I can tell you that more than 30 people have been killed in two
days of fighting. The number of wounded people is about 200,"
Korgab told AFP. The toll is from Thursday and Friday clashes.


The latest round of fighting erupted late Tuesday when at least
seven civilians were killed followed by a lull the next day,
which was shattered late Thursday when both sides resumed
hostilities.


The elders accused the Ethiopian forces of targeting sites where
there were no insurgents, leading to mounting civilian
casualties.


"Ethiopian forces are bombing down civilian sites, places where
there are no insurgents. This morning, they have shelled places
some 15 kilometres away (from the city), and people are fleeing
again," Korgab added.


Meanwhile, more Ethiopian troops deployed to Mogadishu to
reinforce their collegues battling the insurgents backed by clan
militia, witnesses said.


"I have seen and counted about 40 Ethiopian armed vehicles this
morning on the road from Baidoa to Mogadishu," said Amin Hassan
Ado, a resident in Afgooye, 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of the
capital.


"We are very much concerned about this troop reinforcement, it
will worsen the situation."


"I have seen more troops pouring in. They have entered
Mogadishu," said Mohamed Hassan Moalim, who lives near Banadir
Hospital in the south of the capital.


The deployment comes a day after a suspected suicide bomber hit
an Ethiopian military base in the outskirts of the capital.


The African Union envoy to Somalia Mohamed Foum arrived in
Mogadishu and held talks with Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi on
the deployment of more AU peacekeepers in the lawless country,
officials said.


About 1,500 AU peacekeepers from Uganda deployed to Mogadishu
early last month have failed to stem the surge in violence.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to send to Somalia to
help Somali President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed maintain control of
the country.

