

Presidential frontrunners Nicolas Sarkozy and Segolene Royal
would come neck- and-neck in the run-off vote on May 6, according
to a poll published Friday on the last day of campaigning for the
first round.


It is the second survey in a week to put the Socialist Royal on
equal footing with her right-wing rival Sarkozy, who has held the
lead in opinion polls since January.


Both were conducted by CSA, which puts Royal's score several
points higher than other French polling institutes.


The latest one, published by Le Parisien newspaper, credits
Sarkozy with 27 percent of voting intentions in Sunday's first
round, ahead of Royal on 26. In round two, both would garner 50
percent.


The centrist Francois Bayrou would get 17 percent in round one,
barely ahead of far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen on 16 percent.


But another poll released the same day suggests a sweeping
victory for Sarkozy with 53.5 percent of second round votes, over
Royal with 46.5 percent.


The Ipsos/Dell survey, published in Le Point magazine, put
Sarkozy firmly in the lead in Sunday's first round, on 30 percent
of the votes, ahead of Royal on 23 percent, Bayrou at 18 and Le
Pen at 13 percent.


In the event of a run-off between Sarkozy and Bayrou, the survey
suggested a victory for the centrist, by 52 to 48 percent.


A third poll by Ifop, published Friday in Metro newspaper, shows
Sarkozy on 51 against Royal on 49 percent in the second round.


In round one, the right-winger would get 28 percent of votes,
followed by Royal on 22.5, Bayrou on 20 and Le Pen on 13 percent.


Two days from the first round of voting, one in three French
voters is still undecided in an election seen as one of the most
unpredictable ever.


With polls suggesting Sarkozy is almost guaranteed a place in the
May 6 run-off, Sunday's vote largely comes down to a battle for
second place between Royal and Bayrou.


Commentators suggest that Royal could lose to Bayrou, if her
voters decide that he stands a better chance of beating Sarkozy
in the second round, as suggested by opinion polls.

