

America's Cup organisers have called for a meeting with the 11
challengers to work out the best way of fitting in the 40 races
lost this week due to the absent sea breeze.


After the wind failed to pick up sufficiently again on Thursday
it meant four full days of the Louis Vuitton Cup have fallen
victim to the unusually calm conditions.


"As event organisers, we are obviously very disappointed with the
current situation," acknowledged Michel Bonnefous, the CEO of the
organising authority for the 32nd America's Cup.


He added: "Four days of racing have been lost due to the unusual
weather circumstances across Southern Europe. A situation like
this couldn't be anticipated.


"None of the historical weather data recorded for this period of
the year in Valencia showed the possibility of four consecutive
non-sailable days. In fact, for the eight Louis Vuitton Acts that
took place here only two full days of racing were lost."


"This situation clearly affects the running order of the
competition and we are currently in discussion with the Regatta
Director and the Challenger Commission to determine what, if
anything, should be done as far as the racing schedule for the
next few days is concerned," Bonnefous added.


The forecast for Friday is not especially encouraging with blue
skies and light winds again the order of the day yet BMW Oracle's
navigator Peter Isler for one was not discounting possibility of
seeing some action.


"We are optimistic about the chances of holding races on Friday,"
he said.


If racing does go ahead then this first reserve day in the round
robin series will be used by staging Monday's lost programme,
with this week's other lost races slotted in later in the
programme.


Emirates Team New Zealand face a tricky first match against
Italy's Mascalzone Latino-Capitalia which like the Kiwis has
aspirations of making it through to the semi-finals.


America's BMW Oracle has a date with Cup debutants United
Internet Team Germany, with the two other first timers China Team
and South Africa's Team Shosholoza up against Luna Rossa (Italy)
and Victory Challenge (Sweden) respectively.


The round robin stages of the Louis Vuitton are due to run until
May 6,  with the semi-finals scheduled for May 14-25 and the
final on June 1-12.


The winner goes on to challenge Swiss defender Alinghi for the
32nd America's Cup best of nine match series starting from June
23.

