

A gas explosion trapped 11 miners in a northern China coal mine
Friday, state media reported, capping an horrific week for the
country's notoriously dangerous coal mining industry.


Nine miners have already been confirmed dead, 33 others given "no
chance" of survival, and another 33 are now trapped in five
separate accidents across the country since Monday, Xinhua news
agency and mining industry authorities said.


The latest accident occurred Friday afternoon in Hebei province
when 17 miners were working underground in the Tao'er mine in the
city of Handan, Xinhua said, with only six able to escape.


Handan was also the scene on Thursday of a separate accident that
killed nine miners and left another eight missing, according to
Xinhua.


Rescue efforts were underway in both Handan accidents, the report
said.


Thirty-three workers, who were trapped earlier in a mine in
central Henan province, have been given "no chance of survival"
and rescue efforts have been called off, according to a notice
issued Friday by the State Administration of Coal Mine Safety.


A gas explosion had struck the privately-owned Wangzhuang mine on
Monday, and rescue efforts were severely hampered by a subsequent
fire and collapse of mine shafts, Xinhua had reported.


The mining safety authority said an inspection last week found
the mine in violation of safety regulations and that its
management had ignored an order to shut down.


Five people in connection with the mine have been arrested and
others are being sought, it said.


Also on Monday, 12 people were trapped when a mine in central
Hunan provice flooded, state media had reported.


They remained unaccounted for on Thursday, Xinhua said. Their
current fate could not be immediately confirmed.


A mine collapse on Monday in northern Heilongjiang province has
left another two missing, Xinhua had reported. An update on their
condition also could not be obtained.


China's coal mines are regarded as the most dangerous in the
world, with 4,746 workers dying in 2,845 accidents last year,
according to official figures.


Independent labour groups put the death toll at as many as 20,000
annually, as mine operators often cover up accidents to avoid
fines and closure.

