

Suggestions of mass discontent among the players have come hot on
the heels of a perceived crisis at Arsenal following vice-
chairman David Dein's decision to leave the club.


Dein ended his 24-year association with the club on Wednesday in
a development widely linked to boardroom divisions over how to
respond to takeover overtures from American tycoon Stan Kroenke.


Kroenke recently bought an 11 percent stake in Arsenal and Dein,
who holds a 14 percent stake, favoured the American taking on a
major role at Arsenal.


The other directors were against such a move, prompting Dein to
walk out of Arsenal, where he is a popular figure with the
players.


His departure appears to have created a power vacuum and left
Arsenal, which boasts the most conservative boardroom in the
country, on shaky ground and with doubts over the commitment of
manager Arsene Wenger.


Arsenal face Tottenham on Saturday in the hope that events do not
spill over on to the pitch.


But former Gunner Ian Wright suggested Dein's departure has hit
the players, especially French striker Thierry Henry, hard.


"I know the players aren't happy, I know Thierry's not happy,"
Wright told talk- SPORT.


"We're talking about a man (Dein) who goes into the dressing room
after every single game, shakes every player by the hand and who
knows all the youth team players.


"I know this for a fact that the manager and the players are 100
percent behind David Dein, and I can see real repercussions
coming off the back of this.


"David Dein was not going to try and make moves to bring in a
foreign investor from America without Arsene Wenger knowing about
it."


Wenger on Thursday attended an Arsenal board meeting where he is
understood to have asked the directors about their future plans.


He later said: "It is a sad day for Arsenal Football Club.


"It is a huge disappointment because we worked very closely
together. David has contributed highly to the success of the club
in the last 10 years and even before that as well. Red and white
are the colours of his heart."


He added: "My position is that I am linked with the club very
strongly. The relationship with the rest (of the board) has
always been very good and we try always to have a good
understanding."


If Dein decided to sell his stake to Kroenke, the American, who
also owns Major League Soccer's Colorado Rapids, basketball team
Denver Nuggets and ice hockey side Colorado Avalanche, would
become the biggest shareholder in the Gunners, currently valued
at 420 million pounds (846 million dollars).


But he would remain short of the 30 percent required to trigger
an automatic takeover bid under UK corporate law and the
remaining board members, who together account for just over 45
percent of the shares, have agreed to hang on to their stakes for
at least the next year.

