

An unprecedented drought that has withered Australia's major food
production zone could be a taste of things to come as global
warming ramps up, experts said Friday.


Prime Minister John Howard said the six-year drought was so
extreme Australia may have to import food while fears are
mounting that supermarket prices will skyrocket if no rains fall
within the next few weeks.


"The best thing that people could do is to pray for rain, and I
mean that," Howard told public radio.


The prime minister has refused to blame the "unprecedentedly
dangerous" crisis directly on climate change.


But scientists said the link between climate change and the
drying up of rivers in the vast Murray-Darling Basin, Australia's
prime agricultural region, was strengthening.


"You can't say that definitively, but I guess on the balance of
evidence from southern Australia, rainfall patterns appear to
have shifted," Adelaide University's professor of natural
resources science Wayne Meyer said.


"There's no question about the evidence in terms of increased
temperature. We have seen this persistent increase in temperature
over the last 30 or 50 years. All the projections are that that
will continue."


Meyer said Australia, with its warm climate, vast deserts and
lack of mountains, would be one of the first countries in the
world to be hit by the hardships caused by global warming.


"We are the ones that are going to be at the forefront because
we're less buffered," he told AFP.


On Thursday, Howard warned that farmers along the Murray-Darling
region would lose all their irrigation water if rains do not fall
by June.


The Murray-Darling river system in southeastern Australia covers
more than one million square kilometres (386,000 square miles),
including most of New South Wales state and large parts of
Victoria, Queensland and South Australia.


Containing 72 percent of Australia's irrigated crops and pastures
and much of the nation's grape crop, it is regarded as the
country's food basket.


Farmers say that unless drenching rains fall within weeks, the
drought will devastate grape, citrus, stonefruit and apple
production, cripple the wine industry and see food prices soar.


"Well, we'll never prove it's climate change until after the
event but a lot of farmers have said this drought has the
fingerprints of climate change all over it," the government's
Murray-Darling Basin Commission chief Wendy Craik said.


As the country debates further water restrictions for major
cities, building desalination plants to provide fresh water, and
even transplanting farms to the tropical north, the opposition
has attacked the government for its previous climate change
scepticism.


"It's not the Howard government's fault in itself. I mean Mr.
Howard can't make it rain, I understand that," Labor Party leader
Kevin Rudd told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation.


"But for half a decade or more the government has been in a state
of denial on climate change and water."


Environmental historian Daniel Connell said it was irrelevant
whether the current water shortage was a result of the drought or
global warming -- cultural change was now needed to ensure water
was used more efficiently.


"This is an indication of what's going to happen in the future,"
the Australian National University academic told AFP.


"These are the sorts of conditions we need to be able to manage.
Society has got to change its attitude to water and how it uses
water."

