

France's left-wing newspaper Liberation Friday urged readers not
to vote for centrist presidential candidate Francois Bayrou,
warning of a fatal blow to the French left if it fails to qualify
for round two.


Polls suggest many traditional left-wing voters could back Bayrou
instead of the Socialist Segolene Royal in Sunday's first round,
if they decide he stands a better chance of beating right-wing
frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy in a run-off.


"Bayrou? It's mad," wrote the left-wing newspaper. "If you vote
Bayrou, it means you have decided, truly, to make the left
disappear in the first round, for the second time running -- in
other terms to wipe it from the map."


"The message will be clear: farewell to the left, to Socialism,
to uncertain but generous social reform, to the struggle against
unfettered capitalism," wrote Liberation. "A whole period of
history.. consigned to the museum."


In 2002, the Socialist Party (PS) candidate Lionel Jospin was
knocked out in round one by the far-right leader Jean-Marie Le
Pen, who went on to face off against Jacques Chirac in the run-
off.


The PS has urged voters tempted by the far-left or centre to
rally round Royal in the first round to avoid a repeat of 2002.


Liberation said the Socialist champion was capable of bringing
renewal to the left, arguing that "Royal's mandate in the second
round will not be to re- establish the old Socialism but to
dynamite it."


So far both frontrunners have sought to shore up support from
their core voters, with tough talk on immigration from Sarkozy
and a focus on social measures from Royal. Both would be expected
to shift their message to the centre for round two.


On Thursday the authoritative centre-left newspaper Le Monde also
implicitly urged voters to eliminate Bayrou in round one, saying
the country needed a straight left-right wing choice in the run-
off.


Le Monde argued that it was important for two differing "visions
of society" to be represented in the runoff so voters can "say
clearly where they want to go, decide on a certain idea of our
future and of our life together."

