

Former greats on Friday paid glowing tributes to retiring batting
genius Brian Lara, saying he leaves behind a great legacy.


But the praise was tinged with regret over his failures as
captain of a declining team.


The record-setting left-hander announced he would retire from
international cricket after his team's last World Cup match
against England here on Saturday, bringing to an end a 17-year
stay on the frontline which has had its fair share of ups and
downs.


"I am bidding farwell to international cricket," said Lara on
Thursday, ending speculation he was about to be replaced as
captain for next month's tour of England, a trip for which he may
not have even been selected as a player.


Former bowling great Wes Hall was surprised over Lara's sudden
decision despite the 37-year-old having already announced he
would retire from one-day cricket after the World Cup but would
continue to play Tests.


"I am lost for words, it's unexpected," said Hall.


"He was a great servant to West Indies cricket. His legacy is
fantastic, a great batsman, 400 in a Test, 501 in first-class
cricket, I mean it's a big legacy," added Hall, also an ex-
president of the West Indies Cricket Board.


Trinidadian Lara holds the world records for Test and first class
scores.


He smashed an unbeaten 400 against England in the Antigua Test in
2004 and an unbeaten 501 for Warwickshire against Durham in the
English county championship in 1994.


He is the highest scorer in Tests with 11,953 runs in 131 matches
with 34 centuries and the fifth-highest in one-dayers with 10,387
in 298 games.


Hall's new-ball partner Charlie Griffith agreed Lara was a
genius.


"He leaves behind a strong legacy and a lot of players will have
to work really hard to fill his shoes," said Griffith.


Ramnaresh Sarwan, tipped to take over as new West Indies captain,
praised Lara's mental strength.


"Lara is a very strong man. He has come under a lot of scrutiny
but his mental strength stands out," said Sarwan, who has been
Lara's deputy since 2003.


But despite acclaiming his stature, some of his most vociferous
critics accused Lara of prolonging his career.


"Lara stayed on for longer than he should have, and now it's time
to thank him and look forward," said former fast bowler Michael
Holding.


"He had a great career, but of course, a lot of times his
captaincy was questioned."


Holding's team-mate Joel Garner agreed Lara's leadership left a
lot to be desired.


Lara's only meaningful piece of silverware as national skipper
came with the 2004 ICC Champions Trophy.


"It is his decision (to retire) and I can't say it's wrong. A
captain can only be judged by his success record and that's not
good in his case. Now we have to take drastic steps to carry West
Indies cricket forward," said Garner.


Former opener and a team-mate of Lara, Philo Wallace said Lara's
retirement was a great loss.


"It is a big loss to world cricket and one that will be hard to
overcome," said Wallace.

