

Ethiopian forces and Islamist insurgents faced off in the Somali
capital Friday after a night of sporadic gunfire and shelling,
residents said.


The rival forces remained behind sandbags and inside trenches in
several parts of northern and southern Mogadishu, with occasional
shelling heard from the frontlines, they said.


"Some artillery shells landed in this area early today morning.
Two shells crashed into a house where people had already fled,"
said Haji Alow Musa, a resident of the Fagah area of northern
Mogadishu.


"But now I can see the Ethiopians and insurgents hidden in areas
around the junction here," he added.


"We fear that they may start fighting anytime from now."


Ethiopian forces blocked a key road after a suspected suicide
bomber attacked their base south of the capital, trapping fleeing
civilians.


Residents were forced to camp under trees in Elesha outpost,
about 12 kilometres (seven miles) south of Mogadishu, after
failing to find their way down south.


"I live with my children under a tree now and there are a lot of
people living like this," Muna Ali Nur, a mother-of-four, told
AFP from a camp in Elesha.


On Thursday, fighting claimed the lives of at least nine
civilians after mortar shells landed at a bus station in southern
Mogadishu.


Four days of fighting that broke out late last month was the
worst violence in Mogadishu for 15 years and efforts to agree a
lasting ceasefire have been dogged by clashes.


Elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan have accused the
Ethiopians of refusing to withdraw from the frontline, attacking
the insurgents and shattering the truce that had calmed the heavy
fire in the city.


Elders have said at least 1,000 people have died and more than
4,000 have been wounded in the fighting. The UN refugee agency
said more than 200,000 have fled Mogadishu in the past two
months.


The UN's humanitarian coordinator in Somalia Eric Laroche said
government forces were choking relief supplies, UN aircraft were
being shot at, corpses were lying in the streets of the capital,
while a cholera or diarrhoea epidemic was taking hold and new
flooding was likely soon.

