

A pro-government tribal leader hailed by Pakistan for expelling
foreign militants from a troubled frontier region said Friday he
would protect Osama bin Laden if he sought shelter with him.


Mullah Mohammad Nazir told a rare press conference in Wana, the
main town in South Waziristan tribal district, that he had never
met the Al-Qaeda chief but would help him in line with local
traditions.


"Bin Laden has never come to this area but if he comes here and
seeks our protection then according to tribal laws and customs we
will protect him," the 32-year-old former Taliban commander said.


"Our traditions and customs demand that we support the
oppressed," added Nazir, who was flanked by heavily-armed gunmen.


Bin Laden carries a 25-million-dollar US bounty on his head and
is accused of masterminding the September 11, 2001 attacks on the
United States which killed nearly 3,000 people.


US officials have repeatedly said they believe that the Saudi is
hiding in the rugged tribal belt straddling the border between
Pakistan and Afghanistan, where conservative ethnic Pashtun
tribes hold sway.


Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf said on April 12 that tribal
fighters commanded by Nazir and backed by the army had killed 300
Uzbek and other foreign Al-Qaeda-linked militants in the past
month.


The Pakistani tribesmen had sheltered the Uzbeks after the fall
of Afghanistan's Taliban regime in 2001 but fell out violently
with them in mid-March and launched a bid to drive them out.


Musharraf said Nazir's actions vindicated Islamabad's policy of
signing peace deals with formerly Taliban-supporting tribesmen,
including a pact inked in South Waziristan in 2005.


Western nations with nearly 50,000 troops in Afghanistan have
criticised the deals, saying they create a safe haven for the
Taliban and that attacks by the militants have risen as a result.


Nazir, who comes from the Wazir tribe that gives Waziristan its
name, said that Pakistan tribesmen were not involved in the
"jihad" against NATO and US soldiers.


"No one is going over to Afghanistan from here to fight with the
US forces. There are Wazir tribes over there (in Afghanistan) as
well and they are fighting from their own land," he said.


But Nazir added that he and his men would "fight the US and the
infidel forces if they come and attack our territory."


Pakistan has categorically refused permission for the US-led
coalition and NATO- led International Security Assistance Force
to pursue Taliban rebels onto its territory, saying that it is a
sovereign nation.


However, there have been several missile strikes in the Pakistani
tribal belt attributed to US forces, including one in January
2006 that officials said had narrowly missed Bin Laden's deputy,
Ayman al-Zawahiri.

