

The massacre at Virginia Tech has sparked an intense debate over
how to deal with mental illness and how best to protect society
from people with violent tendencies.


University officials faced a barrage of questions Thursday about
why they allowed gunman Cho Seung-Hui to remain in school despite
a history of mental problems and stalking.


But while some are calling for a reform of the mental health
system and the expulsion of disturbed students, experts say the
solution is not that simple.


Strange behavior is not sufficient to force a student into
counseling, and even the best practitioners cannot always predict
when a patient has become a danger to themselves or to others,
experts said.


"There can be signs, but it's not a crime to be odd," said Maggie
Olona, head of student counseling at Texas A&M University and
president of the Association for University and College
Counseling Center Directors.


"There is nothing we can do if someone doesn't give us evidence
to act."


Privacy and patient rights laws can also prevent forcible
treatment and doctors or university administrators from telling
relatives that something is wrong.


"Your hands are really tied unless you feel that there's some
sort of imminent danger," said Richard Kadison, chief of mental
health services at Harvard University.


The vast majority of people with mental illnesses are not violent
and it is hard to predict whether those with violent tendencies
will ever carry them out, said Mardi Horowitz, a professor of
psychiatry at the University of California San Francisco.


"A number of people have a great deal of hatred permeating their
personality, a great deal of inferiority they're trying to
convert into a grandiose act and a great deal of envy for anyone
who has what they want," Horowitz told AFP.


Civil rights laws prevent the state from institutionalizing
people simply because they might be dangerous and people can only
be forcibly admitted if there is a concrete threat they could
harm someone.


Cho, 23, has been described as a sullen loner by students,
teachers and his roommates and his violent writings and
intimidating manner raised alarm bells among some of his
professors long before he went on a rampage Monday killing 32
persons and himself.


Cho was committed to a mental institution in December 2005 after
one of two stalking incidents involving female students but was
released the next day for outpatient treatment after he was
deemed not to be a danger to others.


"He broke no law that we know of," Chris Flynn of the Cook
Counseling Center said at a press conference.


While mass shootings are rare, a large number of students have
mental health problems and practitioners say there are not enough
resources to help them all.


Nearly 18 percent of college students say they suffer from
depression and 12 percent say they suffer from anxiety, according
to a recent study by the American College Health Association.


Even more disturbing is that nine percent of college students
said they had seriously considered suicide and one percent had
tried to kill themselves in the past year.


In addition to safety concerns, administrators have to worry
about liability.


More universities have begun forcing suicidal students to
withdraw following a 2003 lawsuit by the parents of an MIT
student who committed suicide.


But that can also lead to lawsuits: George Washington University
recently paid a settlement to a student it suspended after he
sought help for depression when he claimed the school violated
federal disability laws.


"Everyone's going to be looking at those threshold points, and
(ask) 'When do we take more drastic action?'" said Kevin Kruger,
associate executive director of the National Association of
Student Personnel Administrators.


"It's the classic tension between individual freedom -- the right
of every individual to stay on campus -- with the interests of
the community."


"My gut (feeling) on this is, we're going to become more likely
to want to remove students from the educational environment,"
Kruger said.

