

There is no easy solution to the Indonesian haze which has
blighted southeast Asia every year for the past decade, a UN-
backed conference on climate change was told Friday.


Experts said the problem, largely caused by using fire to clear
land for agriculture, is not simply about preserving the
environment but also involves addressing poverty and changing
traditional practices.


Smoggy haze from the fires on Indonesia's Sumatra and Kalimantan
regions sent air pollution levels in neighbouring Malaysia and
Singapore to unhealthy levels several times last year


"It is not just an environment problem," said Loh Ah Tuan, chief
executive of Singapore's National Environment Agency (NEA).


"It is a social, political and economic problem. And if we try to
force an environment solution to a problem such as this, I don't
think we can get an answer," he told delegates on the final day
of the Business Summit for the Environment.


More than 600 executives and environment experts attended the
two-day gathering which discussed how global business can help
lessen the impact of climate change.


Loh said the Singapore government is formulating a masterplan
with Indonesia's Jambi province on how to fight the recurring
haze in part of Jambi, on Sumatra island.


If successful, this model could be duplicated in other parts of
Jambi, Loh said, adding results can only be achieved in a few
years' time.


This "grassroots" approach aims to complement other measures
taken by the Indonesian government, he said.


Raman Letchumanan, head of the environment and disaster
management unit at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) secretariat, said "this is a livelihood issue... it is a
fight against tradition and poverty."


Budidaya, Jambi's forestry chief, outlined the enormity of the
task, pointing out that Jambi alone has a total land area of 5.1
million hectares (13 million acres), with 2.2 million hectares of
forest.


Farmers clear the land the cheapest way they can because of
poverty and unemployment. High costs are also forcing many
plantation firms to use fire to clear vast tracts of land and
dispose of wood residue, Budidaya added.


Brad Sanders, head of fire safety at Asia Pacific Resources
International Holdings Limited, a developer of fibre plantations,
said companies should be willing to spend money to clear the land
instead of using a slash-and-burn method.


The key to preventing fires is not to use fire, he said.


But Sanders agreed poverty was among the root causes.


He identified small farmers, illegal plantation developers, and
plantation companies which cannot afford mechanical means of
clearing the land as the main sources of the burn-offs.


Indonesia's government has outlawed land-clearing by fire, but
weak enforcement means the ban is largely ignored.


Last year was the worst outbreak since the haze that blanketed
much of Southeast Asia in 1997-1998.


Beyond causing health problems and denting tourist arrivals,
scientists have warned that the gas emitted by the haze could
help accelerate global warming.


One noticeable trend compared with 1997-1998 is the increasing
area of peatlands being cleared by burning, environment experts
said at a conference in Singapore last year.


Fires in peatlands can cause much more smoke per hectare than
other types of forest fires.


Southeast Asia has 60 percent of the world's tropical peatlands.
Indonesia's peat swamps contain 21 percent of the earth's land-
based carbon and unless action is taken, that carbon could become
hot-house gas in 40 years, the experts said last year.

