

The EU border agency Frontex announced Friday it will make its
patrols off Spain's Canary Islands a year-round operation, as
part of a long-term effort to curb illegal immigration from West
Africa.


"The operation will continue throughout the year," Frontex
spokeswoman Daniela Munzbergova said.


Up to now, three international patrol missions -- dubbed Hera
operations -- coordinated by the Warsaw-based Frontex have been
run since last summer.


"The new-concept Hera operations will start soon, as the route
from the West African coast stays in our focus," Frontex chief
Ilkka Laitinen said in a statement.


"The new concept of Hera 2007 responds to the need of a longer-
term presence of Frontex-coordinated assets in the region," the
statement said.


Frontex will beef up or reduce EU resources for the operation,
depending on the current or predicted numbers of clandestine
migrants trying to make the perilous crossing to the Canaries
from West Africa, the statement said.


Frontex mounted the first Hera operation after more than 7,500
illegal immigrants landed on the Canary Islands in the first six
months of last year.


"In September 2006, the number of migrants who embarked from west
Africa was 7,000. In the first two weeks of October, when
operation Hera was in full swing, only two cayucos embarked,"
Laitinen said last month at a conference at Frontex's Warsaw
headquarters.


Two operations under the Hera banner were held last year, and
after a pause during the winter when attempts to make the sea
crossing from West Africa to the Canaries drop, the operation was
resumed in February.


The third operation has been credited with helping to drastically
reduce the number of illegal migrants who have made landfall in
the Canaries.


Spanish police figures released earlier this month showed that
just 303 illegals, most of them from sub-Saharan Africa, arrived
in the Canaries in March, seven times fewer than the 2,120
arrivals in the same month last year.


Some 1,525 immigrants arrived in the first quarter of 2007, a
reduction of 61 percent on the same time last year (3,194
arrivals).


The latest operation Hera was run with help from Spain, Italy,
France and Luxembourg, and in conjunction with the Senegalese
authorities.


Frontex was set up in 2005 to coordinate the efforts of
individual EU member states in securing the EU's 6,000 kilometres
(3,600 miles) of external land borders and 85,000 kilometers of
coastline.

