

Kyrgyz security forces summoned opposition activists for
questioning and detained about 100 people on Friday after rioters
pelted the president's office with rocks and bottles.


Parliament called for an inquiry into the overnight disturbances,
in which riot police dispersed several thousand demonstrators
outside the president's office using tear gas and flares.
Isolated looting also occurred.


The GNKB internal security agency said that inquiries were
focussed on the opposition United Front For a Worthy Future for
Kyrgyzstan.


"Until yesterday we hadn't interfered in anything. But today...
we have summoned for questioning all the members of the Front not
having parliamentary immunity," the GKNB's head, Murat Sutalinov,
told journalists.


Outside the president's office, all demonstrations had ended and
a camp of traditional yurt tents set up by activists on April 11
had been cleared away.


This ex-Soviet state, strategically located on China's western
edge and host to US and Russian airbases, has experienced regular
demonstrations and unrest since the 2005 ouster of president
Askar Akayev in an uprising.


On Friday, opposition forces, who have been calling for months
for President Kurmanbek Bakiyev's resignation, appeared divided
on how to proceed.


Prime Minister Almaz Atambayev, a moderate opposition figure who
was brought into the government last month, voiced hope for
future compromise with the opposition.


The opposition has accused Bakiyev, who came to power promising
democratic and economic reforms, of running a corrupt
administration and failing to live up to his pledges.


Several opposition figures accused the security forces of acting
heavy-handedly as they dispersed Thursday evening's demonstration
outside the vast concrete presidential office, known as the White
House.


Some accused drunken "provocateurs" of stirring up trouble among
demonstrators who had been camping out since April 11.


But the moderate For Reforms movement said it was calling off its
recent protests and was no longer seeking Bakiyev's resignation,
although it still wanted constitutional reforms to reduce the
president's powers.


"Due to the unacceptable roughness and cynicism of the
authorities, particularly the law enforcement agencies, the For
Reforms movement has decided to end the opposition protests in
Bishkek," opposition member of parliament Kubatbek Baibolov told
journalists.


However, talks were under way among the leaders of the more
radical United Front, of opposition leader Felix Kulov, who
served as prime minister until the end of last year but then
split with Bakiyev.


"We are still discussing what we will do," one of the leaders of
the United Front, Omurbek Suvanaliyev, told AFP.


The prime minister pinned the blame for Thursday's unrest on
Kulov's "radical statements."


He added however that he thought compromise could be reached with
the more moderate For Reforms movement.


Kyrgyzstan has been held up by the United States as an example of
budding democracy for other ex-Soviet states in Central Asia to
follow.


But continued turbulence, including the killings of three members
of parliament since the 2005 uprising, has caused concerns among
some observers, especially over the relatively slow pace of
economic growth.

