

Japan's government said Friday that it will consider tightening
gun-control rules after the murder of Nagasaki's mayor, as a new
gun death rattled the capital Tokyo.


A man was shot dead outside a shop in suburban Tokyo, just three
days after the mayor was gunned down in Nagasaki in a killing
that has stunned a nation priding itself on its safety record.


Underworld gangs are linked to most gun violence here, including
the death of mayor Iccho Ito, who was attacked by a gang member
Tuesday in the southern Japanese city as he campaigned for re-
election this weekend.


"This case we had in Nagasaki is literally a challenge to
democracy," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuhisa Shiozaki told a news
conference.


"The Abe cabinet wants to take it seriously and will take
action," said Shiozaki, the top spokesman of Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe.


Shiozaki said he will chair a "firearms eradication promotion
conference" to hold its first meeting next week.


Japan already strictly controls guns, with only police and
licensed hunters and some sportsmen allowed to own firearms.


It contrasts with the United States, where a mentally disturbed
student's shooting rampage at a Virginia university that left 33
people dead this week has renewed debate over the nation's easy
access to guns.


The Japanese government panel is first expected to review
existing controls and consider shoring up ways to prevent the
smuggling of illegal firearms into the country.


Tetsuzo Fuyushiba, minister of land, infrastructure and
transport, called for an immediate enhancement of gun control
enforcement.


"I want to call on the Tokyo Metropolitan Police and others to
further strengthen the control of firearms," he told reporters.


Japan has the fewest gun deaths per capita among major developed
countries. The United States, where the right to bear arms is
constitutionally protected, has the highest, according to a 1999
UN study.


Nagasaki police said the mayor's assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, used a
US-made .38-caliber Smith and Wesson revolver.


Investigators were trying to piece together the motives of
Shiroo, who apparently had a grudge against the city and was
seeking compensation over a car accident.


In one development, Kyodo News said police suspected 59-year-old
Shiroo may have had an accomplice, a driver in his early 20s who
was supposedly waiting with a getaway car.


Police declined to comment on the report but said they have
searched vehicles and buildings with possible links to the crime.


Japan saw 53 criminal shootings last year, the lowest figure
since annual data was first collected in 1988, according to
police.


But it has in recent months seen a spurt of shootings amid an
apparent turf war among gangs, or "yakuza," who have vast
interests in underworld businesses including prostitution.


In Friday's latest incidents, a man holed himself up inside a
four-storey apartment building in Tokyo's Machida suburb and
opened fire. Police urged him to give himself up.


Before the standoff, a man gunned down a person outside a store
just across the prefectural border, Jiji Press said, speculating
that the two incidents were connected.

