

South Africa's America's Cup challenger Team Shosholoza has their
number one fan supporting them here this week - Andrew Mlangeni.


The 82-year-old South African Government minister, who served 26
years of a life sentence on Robben Island with Nelson Mandela,
has like his compatriot Archbishop Desmond Tutu been completely
seduced by Shosholoza's spirit.


"This team represents the world I always believed in," he says.


"They are showing the world that South Africa has turned into a
new country and a new democracy we can all be proud of."


And he, like the crew on board the zulu warrior-painted vessel,
will be desperately hoping the wind picks up Friday for
Shosholoza's Louis Vuitton round robin match against Sweden's
Victory Challenge.


Mlangeni says when he was imprisoned an event like the America's
Cup was by no means foremost on his mind.


"No, it never crossed my mind. At the time we were sacrificing
our lives for the freedom of the next generation, we weren't
thinking of ourselves.


"Now that it has happened, we are so very grateful to be able to
enjoy so much of what life offers us.


"South Africans didn't know very much about sailing and it is
something new for me too. But I have quickly become one of your
most passionate supporters.


"On the island we were cut off from the entire world. We didn't
know about anything beyond the prison walls.


"It is really a great pleasure and an honour to come here to
Spain and see this impressive set up built specially for the 32nd
edition of the America's Cup - and especially to watch the first
team from the African continent participating at this level."


Shosholoza, whose name comes from an African miners' song and
which loosely translated means 'going forward', excelled in the
America's Cup preliminary regattas to come in above Cup
heavyweights France.


And Mlangeni said: "Two years ago I didn't even know about this
team and yet here they are competing with the best in one of the
world's most hi-tech sports. They are putting South Africa on the
world map in a very novel way."


And he told the crew which is predominately South African: "You
are a young team, small and under resourced, unlike most of the
other teams competing here."


Shosholoza's strategist is Ian Ainslie, an Olympic sailor and
high school teacher who started his own youth training academy
from where many of the crew have been drawn.


He said when the idea of entering a team for the America's Cup
was first broached by Captain Salvatore Sarno he thought it would
never get off the ground.


"I didn't think it was in the realm of possibilities," he
recalled.


"But I quickly realised Shosholoza had something quite special.
The team had sort of formed more or less out of nothing. We were
all new, and there are obvious limitations to what you can do,
but we had this beginner's attitude and would just try anything.


"We became a really tight bunch and made a lot of progress, and
even the guys without any sailing experience stuck to their job."

