

Oil prices were mixed in Asian trade Friday in a market driven by
healthy fundamentals and a focus on an increase in US refinery
output ahead of the American summer driving season, dealers said.


At 2:45 pm (0645 GMT) New York's main oil futures contract, light
sweet crude for delivery in May, was up 32 cents to 62.15 dollars
per barrel from 61.83 dollars in late US trades Thursday, when it
dropped a hefty 1.30 dollars.


Brent North Sea crude for June was down 19 cents to 65.75
dollars.


Dealers said the price falls were mainly tied to reports that US
refiners were ratcheting up their output.


"In the near-term, supply is sufficient to meet crude demand in
the year's second quarter," said CFC Seymour senior investment
strategist Dariusz Kowalczyk in Hong Kong.


"Fundamentals are driving the market and the concerns over China
are misplaced," he added.


China announced Thursday that its economy grew by 11.1 percent in
the first quarter, prompting Premier Wen Jiabao to warn about the
dangers of an overheated economy.


"(Thursday), investors were concerned over a slowdown in demand
for commodities, including oil in China, and sold," Kowalczyk
said.


But with Beijing apparently not yet ready to take a sharp policy
turn, "demand for oil will continue to be very strong," he said,
adding that the price difference between Brent and the New York
contract will narrow as US refineries ramp up production.


Dealers are watching gasoline (petrol) stocks closely before the
US summer driving season kicks off next month, when many
Americans take to the highways for their holidays.


On the geopolitical front, Iran's controversial nuclear programme
continues to support prices, dealers said.


The UN atomic watchdog said late Wednesday that Iran, the world's
fourth-biggest crude producer, had started feeding uranium gas
for enrichment at a nuclear plant where it has installed more
than 1,300 centrifuges.


Pushed by fears Iran is secretly developing nuclear weapons, the
UN Security Council has already imposed sanctions on Iran for
failing to halt uranium enrichment.


"The market has recently ...focused on other things but at the
back of investors' minds, geopolitical risk continues to weigh
heavily," Kowalczyk said.

