

Scientists have discovered evidence of water in the atmosphere of
a planet outside our own solar system, suggesting a key building
block of life may be found around the universe.


Travis Barman, an astronomer at Lowell Observatory in Flagstaff,
Arizona, and Heather Knutson, a student at Harvard University,
drew on data and measurements taken by the Hubble Space
Telescope, and applied new theoretical models to demonstrate the
likelihood of water absorption in the atmosphere of extra-solar
planet HD209458b.


Water is considered a prerequisite for life and learning about
how water is distributed on other planets may help scientists
better understand whether conditions for life are possible.


For years scientists have anticipated that exoplanets would show
signs of water in the atmosphere, even those that orbit much
closer to central stars than our solar system's Mercury sits from
the sun.


But that proximity has made detecting water difficult, according
to astronomers.


HD209458b, which sits 150 light years from Earth in the
constellation Pegasus, was the first transiting exoplanet ever
found -- that is, the first discovered that passes in front of a
much larger body, from the vantage point of the Earth. It is also
the first exoplanet known to have an atmosphere.


The small planet orbits its star every three and a half days, and
each time it goes by, scientists can assess what is in its
atmosphere by how it absorbs light from the star.


According to a summary of the research, atmospheric water
absorption in such an exoplanet renders it larger in appearance
across one part of the infrared spectrum, compared to wavelengths
in the visible spectrum.


Knutson took the Hubble data on HD209458b, applied to it Barman's
new theoretical model and subsequently identified water
absorption in the planet's atmosphere.


"It is encouraging that theoretical predictions of water in
extrasolar planets seem to agree reasonably well with
observations," said Barman in the statement.


"We now know that water vapor exists in the atmosphere of one
extrasolar planet and there is good reason to believe that other
extrasolar planets contain water vapor," he said.


The research was supported by the Origins of the Solar System
program of the US National Aeronautic and Space Administration,
and is expected to be published in the Astrophysical Journal.

