

New Zealand's Daniel Vettori said his side faced their toughest
test yet as they prepared for a run of three games in nine days
against a trio of leading World Cup contenders.


The Black Caps top the Super Eights table on run-rate from
reigning champions Australia, the only other unbeaten side in the
tournament.


However, they've yet to face one of their major rivals for the
trophy. That will all change on Thursday when New Zealand play
1996 champions Sri Lanka here in Grenada.


They return to the Grenada National Stadium to face South Africa
on Saturday ahead of their final Super Eights game against
Australia a week Friday.


One more victory will assure New Zealand, who've never won the
World Cup, of a semi-final spot.


"I suppose the toughest test is coming up now. People perceive
these three teams coming up as semi-finalists.


"We know it's going to be difficult. We're almost guaranteed a
semi-final spot but we can control our own destiny if we win
tomorrow," he said.


"That's what we want to do and put all doubts away and then find
a comfortable semi-final if there is such a thing.


"I think we're lucky the three teams we are playing are three
very good sides and tipped to do well in this World Cup," said
Vettori, who now needs just one more wicket to become only the
third New Zealander to take 200 in one-day internationals after
Chris Harris (203) and Chris Cairns (203).


"We know if we are going to win the tournament we have to beat
one of these three teams in either the semi-final or the final.
It's a good wake-up call in some ways."


New Zealand are now just one short of equalling their 10-match
winning run of 2004, having already beaten Australia three times
at home before coming to the Caribbean.


But they know they face a stern challenge in a Sri Lanka side
that earlier this year squared both a Test and one-day series in
New Zealand.


"They are a very strong team. We've always had a feeling that
when sub- continental teams come to New Zealand they tend to
struggle but Sri Lanka certainly didn't the last time they came
out and, if anything, probably got the better of us in our home
conditions," Vettori explained.


"That doesn't happen too often and we realise that if they were
doing that in our home conditions, they are going to be tough in
these sorts of scenarios which tend to suit them."


Vettori, who has taken 12 wickets at this World Cup at an average
of 20.91, said New Zealand had still to decide whether to go in
with the same side that beat Ireland by 129 runs in Guyana on
Monday.


Both batsman Ross Taylor hasn't played since a group game against
Kenya (because of a hamstring injury) and fast bowler Mark
Gillespie, restricted to a substitute fielder appearance against
Bangladesh because of an (of his shoulder) are available for
selection.


But fast bowler Michael Mason, who injured his calf bowling
against Bangladesh appears to need more time.


"We played the second spinner (Jeetan Patel) thinking Guyana
would be low and slow and turn a bit, which it did," added
Vettori.


"What we saw yesterday (in Grenada, when South Africa beat West
Indies by 67 runs on Tuesday) there weren't too many spinners on
show. It's hard to get a gauge on whether it will turn too much.


"We think it's going to be another low, slow one."

