

US banking powerhouse Citigroup announced 17,000 mass job cuts
Wednesday as part of a global putsch by top executives to
overhaul its operations and save several billion dollars in
costs.


Citigroup, one of the world's biggest financial firms, said more
than 26,500 staff would be impacted by its overhaul, however, as
it also plans to move over 9,500 jobs to "lower-cost locations"
in the United States and overseas.


The New York-based banking titan has come under public pressure
from shareholders to slash spending and it unveiled the job
losses after a three- month review of its business.


"Ultimately these changes will streamline Citi and make us
leaner, more efficient, and better able to take advantage of high
revenue opportunities," said Citigroup chairman and chief
executive Charles Prince.


Citigroup, which has expanded aggressively in the last decade,
employs some 327,000 staff worldwide and the layoffs will affect
over five percent of its workforce.


Expenses have ballooned in the past year partly as Citigroup has
raced to open hundreds of new bank branches in the US and
overseas while seeking to fend off fierce domestic competition
from arch-rival Bank of America.


Senior executives said the job cuts will help generate cost
savings of 2.1 billion dollars in 2007, 3.7 billion in 2008, and
4.6 billion in 2009.


Prince and other top executives told Wall Street analysts on a
conference call that further reforms could be announced in coming
months as they vie to nail down spending.


Citigroup's CEO promised to make cost cuts a top priority after
the bank's fourth quarter profits slowed and following a reported
call from leading shareholder, Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal,
for "draconian" steps to tackle costs.


Citigroup still booked 5.13 billion dollars in net profits for
the last three months of 2006, more than the combined earnings of
Merrill Lynch, Apple and American Airlines.


Wednesday's announcement will come as a blow to thousands of
Citigroup middle managers and adminstrative workers who will bear
the brunt of the layoffs although job cut rumors have been making
headlines for weeks.


"We wanted to shrink the layers of management," said chief
operating officer Robert Druskin.


Citigroup, which has a market value of around 254 billion
dollars, said it was also moving to close some offices and boost
IT savings to further rein in expenses. Executives said bankers'
day-to-day business expenses are also under the microscope.


UBS analysts said in a note a more streamlined Citigroup was "a
good thing," but questioned if the cuts would be sufficient.


The UBS analysts said the plan was "pretty comprehensive" in
trimming costs but "didn't speak about what portion of cost saves
might be reinvested, which businesses see most benefit, or
anything about profitability targets."


Around 57 percent of the slated job cuts will occur outside the
United States while some 43 percent of the layoffs will affect US
staff, but executives gave few other details on where the axe
would fall.


The banking giant, with a global footprint spanning the Americas,
Europe and Asia, will swallow a hefty pre-tax charge of 1.4
billion dollars during the first quarter of 2007 to largely meet
severance payouts.


About two-thirds of the over 9,500 posts due to be relocated will
occur through "attrition." In many cases, jobs lost in a higher
cost region will be replaced by new positions in a country with
lower employment costs.


The US job market has been strong in recent months, despite a
slowing economy, but Citigroup is not the only big firm to
announce mass layoffs.


German-US auto group DaimlerChrysler initiated 13,000 layoffs at
its troubled Chrysler unit in February while pharmaceutical giant
Pfizer Inc., said in January it was laying off 10,000 workers to
trim costs.


Citigroup's shares were down 51 cents at 51.89 dollars in late
afternoon deals amid wider market losses.

