

Gunmen late Wednesday shot dead a government lawyer who
prosecuted a case that led to the execution of Bangladesh's top
Islamic militants, police said.


Haider Hossain, 53 was shot in the head from close range by
unknown assailants as he was coming out of a mosque after prayers
near his house in southern Bangladesh town of Jhalakathi, local
police chief Habibur Rahman said.


"He died on the way to Barisal hospital," he said.


Hossain was the special public prosecutor in the case of the
murder of two judges late last year, Rahman said, adding he had
sought security from the district authorities after receiving a
threat on Tuesday.


Shaikh Abdur Rahman, the leader of the banned Islamic militant
outfit Jamayetul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), his second-in-
command Siddiqul Islam Bangla Bhai and five top militants were
sentenced to death for the judges' murder.


Among them, six were executed in March after the country's
president rejected their mercy petition. Police have never
arrested the seventh.


Police said they were investigating the murder of the lawyer but
would not comment whether the JMB was involved in the case.


"Right at this stage we cannot say whether it was the work of
JMB. We also haven't ruled it out," Rahman said, adding the
lawyer was recently fired as the district chief of the Jamaat
Islami party, part of the outgoing government.


The JMB has carried out a nationwide bombing campaign since
August 2005, exploding more than 400 bombs in all but one
district of the country.


The attacks by the JMB are part of a campaign apparently aimed at
forcing Bangladesh to replace its secular legal system, which
dates from the British colonial period, with traditional Islamic
or Sharia law.


At least 28 people have been killed and hundreds injured in the
attacks, and some 1,000 JMB members were arrested in an ensuing
crackdown.


Bangladesh has been under emergency rule since January when
political violence between supporters of rival parties led to the
cancellation of parliamentary elections.


The government tightened security across the country immediately
after the executions and carried out a series of raids in an
effort at preventing any revenge attack by remnants of the group.

