

The International Monetary Fund Wednesday rejected calls for
regulation of hedge funds, a campaign that is being pushed by
Germany in the G7 forum of the world's richest economies.


IMF chief economist Simon Johnson said "sensible, responsible
macroeconomic policies" by governments were the best protection
against instability in the financial markets.


"Obviously there are some particular concerns about whether hedge
funds are taking extremely large leveraged bets that could have
adverse consequences on banks who might be lending to them," he
told a news conference.


"But we don't see anything in this current situation that would
merit a heavy- handed, big increase in regulation across the
board of any kind," Johnson said, ahead of the latest meeting of
Group of Seven finance ministers Friday.


Calls for tougher regulation of hedge funds have mounted in
recent months with Germany leading the charge for controls on the
trillion-dollar industry amid fears a hedge fund collapse could
topple a major global bank or banks.


Concern has grown in particular because ostensibly conservative
pension funds have joined the rush to invest in hedge funds
despite their secretive trading practices.


But the United States and Britain, home to the biggest hedge
funds, have resisted the calls and supported instead more self-
regulation.


Johnson, speaking at the launch of the IMF's twice-yearly World
Economic Outlook report, noted that the Fund was helping some
nations' central banks to analyze the sector.


The IMF's approach is to "encourage appropriate stress testing
for their major banks so they can really think carefully about
these exposures in different scenarios."


"But as long as the macroeconomic fundamentals are sound, then
issues in the financial sector are not going to be in the first
order of importance," Johnson stressed.


Hedge fund representatives were expected to meet with deputy
finance ministers at the G7 meeting in Washington to discuss ways
to increase the industry's transparency, the Financial Times
reported on Wednesday.


The talks, involving about 20 hedge fund delegates, will focus on
what a surveillance regime could look like, the business paper
said.


However, the German campaign could be undermined by the absence
of Finance Minister Peer Steinbrueck, who has decided to skip the
G7 meeting to go on holiday with his family in Namibia.

