

Two car bomb attacks rocked the Algerian capital on Wednesday,
killing at least 23 people and injuring more than 160 outside
government headquarters and on the road to the international
airport.


Though no claim of responsibility was made, the attacks came as
Algeria and neighbouring Morocco struggle to keep a lid on
mounting Islamic extremism.


The civil defence department said in a statement that the blast
outside the seat of government in central Algiers had killed 12
people and warned that the toll "could become heavier".


Another 11 people were killed shortly afterwards in explosions in
the eastern suburb of Bab Ezzouar.


A total of 162 people were injured in the two attacks, which
Prime Minister Abdelaziz Belkhamed condemned as "criminal and
cowardly." Witnesses said many of the injured appeared to be in
critical condition.


The explosion at the government headquarters shook several
buildings and sent shattered glass flying up to 300 meters
(yards), witnesses said.


Ambulances and police cars immediately rushed to the complex,
which houses the office of the prime minister and several
ministries.


More than one hour after the explosion, which was heard across
the capital, a thick cloud of smoke was still rising from the
blast site.


Thousands of people congregated on the vast steps of the building
and police struggled to contain the crowd.


Minutes later, witnesses said three car bombs went off in Bab
Ezzouar, on the road to the international airport and not far
from one of Algeria's largest universities.


One blast demolished an electricity sub-station, while the other
two badly damaged a police station.


French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy voiced his "horror
and indignation" and pledged France's "full solidarity" with its
former colony in the fight against terrorism.


There was no immediate claim of responsibility for either of the
attacks, which come as the Algerian authorities are struggling to
curb an upswing in Islamist activity.


At least 33 people, including about 15 security officers, have
been killed in clashes with Islamist militants in Alegeria since
the beginning of April, according to official figures and media
reports.


In February 2006, the government offered an amnesty to any
Islamists who surrendered.


The latest blasts came five days after nine Algerian soldiers and
at least six Islamist militants were killed when a military
convoy was ambushed in a forested area west of Algiers.


The Algerian army has been involved in an offensive in the
eastern region of Kabylie against an Islamist militant group that
has claimed responsibility for a series of deadly attacks.


The Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) is an Al-
Qaeda-linked north African group feared by France as its main
terrorist threat.


Algeria is not the only north African state battling militant
activity, with neighbours Tunisia and Morocco facing a similar
challenge from Islamist groups.


"For a while, it seemed that the authorities in (these) countries
had broken the back of the islamist terrorist networks," said
Magnus Ranstorp, a specialist in Islamist networks at Sweden's
national defence college.


"But it looks that these fronts have been re-energized,
revitalized, perhaps because of the severity of the crackdowns.
That is what we are seeing today essentially: a sort of reaction
to these offensives," Ranstorp told AFP.


In Morocco on Wednesday, police hunted 10 possible suicide
bombers in Casablanca, a day after three suspected militants blew
themselves up as they were being chased.


All were wanted in connection with a March 11 bomb that exploded
in a Casablanca Internet cafe.


In that attack, the bomber, Abdelfettah Raydi, died and his
suspected accomplice and three customers were injured.

