

South Africa captain Graeme Smith says playing with freedom and
natural flair holds the key to his team's revived Cricket World
Cup campaign.


He said an aggressive policy paid off in the 67-run Super Eights
win over the West Indies at the Grenada National Stadium Tuesday
after what he described as a tentative performance when they
suffered a shock defeat by the same margin against Bangladesh in
Guyana Saturday.


"We felt we were a little bit tentative against Bangladesh and we
wanted to come out and express ourselves and not to put ourselves
under pressure and restrict ourselves in the way we play," Smith
said.


"We've got ourselves into the top ranking playing a certain style
of cricket.


"Against Bangladesh we put ourselves under pressure by not
sticking to what we naturally know how to do and what's worked
for us. We wanted to go back to that, to relax and just allow
ourselves to play with freedom but obviously you've got to put
some brains to it."


Smith strongly denied there was any disunity in the South African
camp, which might have contributed to the defeat against
Bangladesh.


"We just played very badly against Bangladesh. We knew we let
ourselves down and it was nice to pick ourselves up. Some of the
stuff that went around back home about the team being divided and
fighting was all a load of crap."


South Africa's chances of reaching the semi-finals were improved
by their win over the West Indies, which effectively eliminated
the host nation, and England's defeat against Australia in
Antigua Sunday.


If they win their two remaining Super Eights games, against
leaders New Zealand in Grenada Saturday and England in Barbados
Tuesday, they will definitely qualify.


But even if they lose to New Zealand they can still get through
by beating England.


"New Zealand is a big game," said Smith.


"They have played well in this tournament. They are a pretty
balanced team and they play well together. They bat pretty low
and they've got a lot of options in the bowling department."


But Smith said South Africa had a good record against New Zealand
and if his team played the way they had against the West Indies
they would be confident.


With a seam-based attack, South Africa have struggled to get
their 50 overs bowled in time and they have also conceded plenty
of runs in the closing overs - 89 in the last ten against
Australia, 80 in the same period against Bangladesh and 70
against the West Indies.


They were fined five percent of their match fee, with captain
Smith losing ten percent, for not completing their overs in time
against Bangladesh.


With time running out against the West Indies, Smith brought
himself on to bowl some expensive off-spinners to get the overs
completed before the side incurred another penalty.


"We knew the first 20 overs would be the key for us," he said to
explain his tactics against the West Indies.


"We took our time because we wanted to be a little more precise.
We knew if we could take wickets we could control the game from
there. The death bowling wasn't really an option because the game
was won by then."


Of his own bowling, he said: "It was a matter of rushing it to
get the overs done."

