

Sri Lanka vice-captain Kumar Sangakkara said it was vital his
side kept faith with the style of cricket that won them the 1996
World Cup if they were to lift the trophy for a second time.


Sanath Jayasuriya, still a key member of the side and Romesh
Kaluwitharana, Sangakkara's predecessor as Sri Lanka wicket-
keeper, formed a dynamic opening partnership that exploited the
fielding restrictions then in place for the first 15 overs and
revolutionised the way totals were compiled.


No longer was the key to building a big score keeping wickets in
hand and waiting for the last 10 overs before going on the
offensive.


Jayasuriya and Kaluwitharana turned everything upside down by
attacking the opposition's fastest bowlers right from the off and
Sri Lanka ended up beating Australia by seven wickets in the
final in Lahore.


It's a tactic that still works. Last year Jayasuriya and current
opening partner Upul Tharanga shared a world record first-wicket
one-day international stand of 286 against England at Headingley.


Sri Lanka, third in the Super Eights, take on table-toppers New
Zealand in a second round match at the Grenada National Stadium
here Thursday that will go some way to assessing both teams'
worthiness as serious challengers to champions Australia, bidding
for an unprecedented third straight title.


"Most of the the times we've gone wrong we've tried to change the
game," said Sangakkara.


"We want to compete with the Sri Lankan brand of cricket.


"Sanath and Kalu went about going after the bowlers in the first
15 overs and now we have five more (overs of fielding
restrictions).


"Even though bowlers are forming strategies to contain batsmen in
the powerplays, I still feel ours is the way to go, not
aggressively but positively."


A more recent development in the one-day game has been for
wicket-keepers to stand up to all but the very fastest bowlers in
a bid to stop batsmen advancing down the pitch without fear of
being stumped.


"I think there's no option," said Sangakkara, who demonstrates
skills many thought were going out of the modern game when
standing up to left-arm seamer Chaminda Vaas.


"Wickets are getting better. If a bowler is below 140 kph,
batsmen are taking it upon themselves to walk down and make the
bowler change their plans.


"But as long as you can hold your skills, it's all right," said
Sangakkara, who added New Zealand's Brendon McCullum had been one
of the world's leading keepers in the last few years.


Sri Lanka are set to be without strike fast bowler Lasith
Malinga, who tops the World Cup bowling averages, because of an
ankle injury.


But in the nailbiting two-run win over England in Antigua last
week it was another quick, Dilhara Fernando, who played a
decisive role when clean bowling Ravi Bopara off the last ball.


And Sangakkara said the likes of Farveez Maharoof and Nuwan
Kulasekara, both vying to replace Malinga, could make an impact
too.


"We have a squad of five fast bowlers and it's up to each of them
to step up when the opportunity presents itself."


By contrast, often injury-prone Black Caps spearhead Shane Bond
is fit.


Sangakkara, a member of the Sri Lanka side that shared a Test and
one-day series in New Zealand earlier this year, said: "Shane
Bond is one person that we have to respect.


"He's possibly been the best fast bowler in the last six or seven
months along with Malinga."

