

US banking powerhouse Citigroup announced Wednesday it was
cutting 17,000 jobs as part of a major global overhaul of its
operations aimed at saving several billion dollars in costs.


Citigroup, one of the world's biggest financial firms, said more
than 26,500 staff would be impacted by its reforms, however, as
it also plans to move over 9,500 jobs to "lower-cost locations"
in the United States and overseas.


The New York-based banking titan has come under pressure from
shareholders to slash its spending and it unveiled the mass job
cuts after a three-month review of its operations.


"Ultimately these changes will streamline Citi and make us
leaner, more efficient, and better able to take advantage of high
revenue opportunities," said Citigroup chairman and chief
executive Charles Prince.


Citigroup, which has expanded aggressively in the last decade,
employs some 327,000 staff worldwide and the job losses will
affect over five percent of its workforce.


Senior executives said the layoffs are expected to help generate
cost savings of 2.1 billion dollars in 2007, 3.7 billion in 2008,
and 4.6 billion in 2009.


Prince and other executives said in a conference call with Wall
Street analysts that further reforms could be rolled out in
coming months as they vie to tap down costs.


Citigroup's CEO promised to make cost cuts a top priority after
the bank's fourth quarter profits slowed and following a reported
call from leading shareholder, Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal,
for "draconian" steps to tackle spending.


Citigroup still booked 5.13 billion dollars in net profits during
the last three months of 2006, more than the combined earnings of
Merrill Lynch, Apple and American Airlines.


Wednesday's announcement will be a blow to thousands of the
bank's middle managers and adminstrative workers who are slated
to bear the brunt of the layoffs.


"We wanted to shrink the layers of management," said chief
operating officer Robert Druskin.


Aside from layoffs, Citigroup said it was also moving to close
some offices and boost its IT savings to further rein in
expenses. Executives said bankers' day- to-day business expenses
are also under the microscope.


Around 57 percent of the slated job cuts will occur outside the
United States while some 43 percent of the layoffs will affect
US-based staff, but executives gave few other details on where
the axe would fall.


The banking giant, with a global footprint spanning the Americas,
Europe and Asia, will swallow a hefty pre-tax charge of 1.4
billion dollars during the first quarter of 2007 to largely meet
severance payouts.


About two-thirds of the over 9,500 posts due to be relocated
would occur through "attrition." In many cases, jobs lost in a
higher cost region will be replaced by new positions in a lower
cost country.


Although a lower headcount is anticipated to boost Citigroup's
fortunes, it will likely not be welcomed by those affected.


The US job market has been strong in recent months, despite a
slowing economy, but Citigroup is not the only big company laying
off employees.


German-US auto group DaimlerChrysler announced 13,000 layoffs at
its troubled Chrysler unit in February while pharmaceutical giant
Pfizer Inc., said in January it was laying off 10,000 workers to
trim costs.


Citigroup's shares were down 76 cents at 51.64 dollars in late
morning trading amid wider market losses.

