

The government and rebels in Ivory Coast on Wednesday signed an
agreement with foreign peacekeepers to dismantle a buffer zone
dividing the west African nation since 2002.


The pulling down of the so-called confidence zone dividing rebel-
held areas in the north from the rest of the country should begin
on Monday in line with a peace deal signed by President Laurent
Gbagbo and rebel leader Guillaume Soro last month.


"The new text we have just signed today day clearly stipulates
... that the confidence zone is to be removed from April 16," the
UN peacekeeping mission military chief general Marcel Amoussou
told AFP.


The demilitarised strip extending from the east to the west of
the cocoa-rich country was created when peacekeeping troops under
the aegis of the United Nations moved in to keep the warring
sides apart.


It has until now been patrolled by UN and French troops despite
the end of actual fighting between the rebels and pro-government
troops in 2004.


After years of an impasse in the peace process, the two sides
unexpectedly signed an agreement early last month, which gave the
rebel chief the post of prime minister and the gradual withdrawal
of foreign troops.


The country, once a bastion of stability in traditionally
troubled west Africa, slid into a civil war in 2002 following a
failed coup against Gbagbo led by Soro.


In a progressive scheme expected to end in December, according to
military sources, foreign troops are to withdraw into 17
observation posts along what will be dubbed the "green line".


Every two months, the number of observation posts will be reduced
by half, while foreign troops will eventually be replaced
completely by year end by the country's reunited military, which
will include rebel troops and forces loyal to Gbagbo.


Some 7,800 UN troops and 3,500 French forces have been operating
in the Ivory Coast under UN mandate.


Wednesday's agreement was signed in the oceanside economic
capital of Abidjan by the military heads of the rebel and
government forces along with French and UN troops, as a follow-up
to the landmark deal the political foes secured in nearby Burkina
Faso.


The two sides also agreed to hold elections this year.


The removal of the buffer zone will allow Ivorians to freely move
between the two parts of the country and be subjected to fewer
controls than before.


"All the practical modalities will depend also on the Ivorians.
Others would like it to go fast, but others are worried to see
the international forces pulling out quickly," said a European
military source.


Such concerns relates mainly to the western part of the country
bordering Liberia, seen as the most volatile due to the huge
population of pro-government militias.

