

World oil prices swung higher Wednesday after a US government
report showed gasoline stockpiles slumped last week by much more
than expected, ahead of the peak demand season for motor fuel.


Traders also kept a keen eye on major crude producer Iran, which
remains in the international spotlight over its disputed nuclear
energy ambitions.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, closed up 12 cents at 62.01 dollars per barrel
after striking 62.56 dollars earlier Wednesday.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
settled up 42 cents at 67.84 dollars per barrel, retreating from
68.89 dollars in earlier deals.


The drop in gasoline inventories "was the biggest surprise in the
(latest) data and nothing else may matter all that much in the
near term," Citigroup analyst Tim Evans said.


The US Department of Energy said Wednesday that inventories of US
gasoline, or petrol, plunged by 5.5 million barrels to 199.7
million in the week to April 6. Analysts had forecast a drawdown
of 1.4 million barrels.


"A surprisingly massive gasoline inventory draw is likely to push
up gasoline contract prices and prices at the pump," said Jason
Schenker at Wachovia Securities.


Gasoline stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market ahead of
the so-called US driving season that starts next month and sees
many Americans hit the highways for their holidays.


American refineries are meanwhile unable to convert enough crude
into gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


Aside from US stockpiles, traders tracked the headlines on Iran.


On Tuesday, the European Union had urged Tehran not to defy the
United Nations, increasing international diplomatic pressure on
Tehran after its claim that it could enrich uranium on an
industrial scale.


Uranium enrichment is the key sticking point in the row between
Iran and the West because the process can also make the fissile
core for an atomic bomb. Western powers accuse Tehran of seeking
to acquire nuclear arms while Tehran insists its program is for
power generation only.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest crude exporter and a key
member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries,
and analysts fear that further sanctions in the ongoing dispute
over the program could disrupt oil exports.

