

EU plans to cap the price operators can charge mobile phone users
while abroad face a key hurdle on Thursday in the European
Parliament.


The assembly's industry committee is to vote on the European
Commission's plans, thereby providing a preview of what the full
parliament will likely do in a plenary sitting on May 10.


The European Commission hopes to see so-called roaming charges
fall by as much as 70 percent, thanks to its plans to cap what
operators charge customers at the retail level and what they
charge each other at the wholesale level.


EU Telecommunications Commissioner Viviane Reding, who has led
the push for price regulation, said she saw an agreement emerging
on the plan and hoped that limits would be in place by summer.


"A political agreement on lower roaming tariffs is now within
reach," she said in a statement ahead of the vote.


"In this important phase of the legislative procedure, it is of
crucial importance to ensure that all consumers in the EU will be
able to benefit from lower roaming charges, and that no one is
left behind," she added.


The Commission drew up the plans to regulate roaming rates after
finding evidence of huge variations between operators with
roaming calls costing some times up to six times those of local
mobile calls.


Under the plans, the Commission proposes setting a ceiling of 44
euro cents a minute before tax for calls from abroad to a user's
home country within the EU.


The price of calls within the country being visited would be
capped at 30 cents and users could be charged no more than 15
cents for receiving calls.


The European Commission, the EU's executive arm, hopes that an
agreement in the parliament in May would open the way for a deal
among EU governments in June.


However, the EU lawmaker in charge of the parliament's industry
committee, German conservative Angelika Niebler, said that she
expected more time would be needed and that the new rules would
not be in place until the autumn or even the end of the year.


The package has the industry, which argues that fierce
competition has already driven prices down, up in arms and it has
been lobbying hard to get the plans watered down.


"At a time when Europe is trying to stimulate investment and
innovation, these inappropriate and inconsistent proposals are
becoming increasingly removed from the economic realities of the
mobile market," said Rob Conway, head of the GSMA trade group,
ahead of the vote.

