

At least 15 people were killed as sectarian violence erupted
again in northwest Pakistan Thursday bringing the death toll from
fierce clashes between Sunni and Shiite Muslims to at least 55,
security officials and residents said.


Rival groups clashed in two villages near the curfew-bound tribal
town of Parachinar, leaving twelve people dead, security
officials said.


Residents said at least 40 houses were torched in Jalime and Char
Dewar villages on the outskirts of Parachinar. Women and children
fled to the nearby town of Alizai, they said.


Local administration chief Sahibzada Anees confirmed the violence
erupted after two days of lull but gave no casualty figures.


"We have sent troops to the area and are collecting details of
the casualties," Anees told AFP.


An exchange of gunfire also took place in Sadda town in which
three people were killed, officials said. Troops rushed to the
area and brokered a truce between the warring groups, they said.


Sectarian clashes between Sunni and Shiite Muslims erupted in
Parachinar, the main town in the tribal Kurram region bordering
Afghanistan on Friday.


Parachinar, which has a population of around 70,000 people,
remains under curfew since then and soldiers patrolling the town
have been given shoot-on-sight orders to curb the violence.


Officials said before Wednesday's violence that 40 people have
died in the clashes while residents put the toll at 60 dead and
around 200 wounded.


Tribal elders and clerics from the two sects were making efforts
to negotiate a ceasefire between the heavily armed rival groups,
they said.


Officials said trouble erupted after members of the Shiite
community staged a demonstration Friday outside their mosque
against local Sunnis who allegedly chanted anti-Shiite slogans
during a religious rally early this month.


Shiites, who account for about 20 per cent of Pakistan's 160
million Sunni- dominated population, are in the majority in
Parachinar.


Sectarian violence involving Sunni and Shiite militants has
claimed more than 4,000 lives since the late 1980s.

