

Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi Wednesday said his government
had tried to save the lives of two Afghans kidnapped in
Afghanistan along with an Italian journalist and beheaded by
Taliban militants.


Prodi said his government "had fought so that all the hostages
could return to their families as human life has no nationality."


The Italian and Afghan governments have been blasted for
hypocrisy and cynicism over the abductions, after a prisoner-swap
deal was struck for the Italian's release while nothing seemed to
have been done for the Afghans.


Prodi said the Italian government and he himself "sympathised
with the great tragedy that has befallen" the families of the two
Afghan victims.


"The Italian government firmly condemns this barbaric act which
ended the live of an admirable and brave man," Prodi said,
referring to Afghan freelance reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, who was
beheaded along with an Afghan driver.


Both were working for Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo,
who works for the La Repubblica newspaper.


Mastrogiacomo was held captive for two weeks last month but his
Afghan driver and interpreter were beheaded. The gruesome
execution was aired on Italian television.


Mastrogiacomo was released in a swap for five Taliban prisoners
that angered many Afghans and prompted the United States and
other countries to condemn negotiations with "terrorists".


The Italian government is due on Thursday to outline in
parliament the circumstances surrounding Mastrogiacomo's release.


"The decision was unanimous... The House of Freedoms (right-wing
opposition) has asked that the government be represented at the
highest level," said Massimo Donadi, of the Italy of Values
Party, part of the ruling centre-left coalition.


Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema is expected to answer questions.


Right-wing opposition leader and former Italian premier Silvio
Berlusconi has called on his supporters to put a stop to the
controversy for "humanitarian reasons and Italy's reputation,"
after D'Alema proposed to shed light on all hostage releases in
recent years, including those negotiated under the Berlusconi
government in 2001-2006.


Italian aid organisation Emergency, which announced that it was
pulling all its foreign staff out of Afghanistan, has also
chastised Rome for not doing enough to free Naqshbandi.

