

T-Mobile's Marcus Burghardt claimed a prestigious first
professional win at the Gent-Wevelgem one-day classic here on
Wednesday.


The 23-year-old German crossed the finish line alone after
launching a late solo attack which gave much-fancied Spanish
sprinter Oscar Freire of Rabobank no chance.


Burghardt's British teammate Roger Hammond finished second just
ahead of Milan- San Remo winner Freire, who had virtually given
up pedalling as the German raced towards the finish line.


Spaniard Francisco Ventoso of Saunier Duval finished fourth ahead
of Frenchman Christophe Mengin, with Australian Robbie McEwen
leading the main peloton across the finish line barely 15secs
later.


Burghardt, Freire and Ventoso had cooperated in a bid to distance
the peloton and with 25km to go they caught a leading trio of
Florent Brard, Mengin and Hammond, who had escaped in the first
hour of racing.


With most of the remainder of the race on decent roads, they
managed to build a maximum lead of 51sec lead as, behind them,
the treacherous cobblestone sections took their toll on the
peloton.


Unibet's Jimmy Casper appeared worst off from among the many who
crashed, the Frenchman sustaining face, hand and shoulder
injuries when he came down hard on a downhill section some 50km
from the finish.


However Australians Mathew Hayman and Matt Wilson, American Tyler
Farrar and Danish champion Allan Johansen were among those who
also ended up crashing.


Freire, a three-time world champion, had been hoping for his
breakaway to end in a bunch sprint.


However the T-Mobile pair of Burghardt and Hammond made sure that
did not happen.


With the final kilometre approaching, and the main peloton a
comfortable 20secs further back, Burghardt attacked to take a
decisive lead of 200 metres.


Freire hesitated before deciding to pursue, and when he did
Hammond - who like him is a sprinter - stuck to his wheel like
glue.


"Before the final kilometre Roger (Hammond) took the lead of the
group and that allowed me to attack from behind," explained
Burghardt.


"In any case, with Freire in our group we didn't have any choice
but to try and attack."


Freire admitted that T-Mobile's superiority in numbers had
condemned his bid to victory.


"He (Burghardt) attacked at the right time, he was pretty
impressive," said the 31-year-old Spaniard.


"I saw straight away it was almost impossible to close the gap.
But I kind of expected one of the T-Mobile guys to attack. That's
racing."

