

The United States on Wednesday ruled out releasing five Iranians
held in Iraq, after Tehran warned it was unlikely to attend a May
conference on Iraq's security unless they were freed.


Asked whether the United States would consider releasing the
five, whom US forces detained in a January raid in northern Iraq,
White House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe replied:
"No."


Johndroe also rejected charges from Iranian state television that
the United States had severely abused an Iranian diplomat during
a two-month captivity in Iraq.


"The United States was not involved in his detention, and any
suggestion of torture is baseless," Johndroe said after Iranian
television showed footage of Jalal Sharafi's wounds and called
them proof of US torture.


The United States has long accused Iran of improperly meddling in
Iraq, of aiding militias and other forces that have targeted US-
led troops since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime four years
ago.


US forces arrested five Iranians during a raid in northern Iraq
in January, and has accused them of seeking to stir trouble in
Iraq and has detained them ever since. Iran says the men are
diplomats who were working for a "consulate."


Iraq has said the ministerial level meeting of its neighboring
countries and world powers will be held in the Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt between May 3-4.


"We told the Iraqi officials that as long as the Iranian
diplomats are not freed, the idea of Iran attending any
conference along with the United States will encounter serious
problems and obstacles," Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas
Araghchi told the hardline Kayhan newspaper.


Tehran has repeatedly called for their release. Washington has
responded by saying they are being detained pending an
investigation, although it has not announced any formal charges
against them.


In the Sharafi case, Washington has steadfastly denied any
involvement, and Johndroe welcomed his release when it was
announced last week.


But Iranian state television on Wednesday showed footage of
Sharafi in hospital, his feet badly bruised and body covered by
sensors, as he was visited by the head of the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) delegation in Iran, Peter
Stocker.


"The United States, whose officials make claims about human
rights, drilled holes into the legs of Jalal Sharafi and there
were signs of damage to his nose and neck," state television
said.

