

Democratic lawmakers Wednesday urged President George W. Bush to
meet with them at Congress to discuss a war-funding bill rather
than wait for proposed White House talks next week.


"Rather than wait until next week to meet as you proposed, we
would like to begin this dialogue now," four leading Democratic
Senators wrote in an open letter to Bush.


"Therefore, we respectfully request that you consider coming to
Capitol Hill this Friday to meet with Democratic and Republican
members of the United States Senate in an effort to begin
bridging the differences between your Iraq policy and that
supported by the Congress late last month."


The letter is signed by senators Harry Reid, Richard Durbin,
Chuck Schumer and Patty Murray.


It was the latest shot in a dragging showdown between Bush and
the Congress over a bill approving funding for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


On Tuesday Bush invited US lawmakers to meet with him at the
White House next week to discuss the bill which he has threatened
to veto if it contains a timetable for withdrawing US troops from
Iraq.


The House and Senate, which have both passed bills setting
different deadlines, must now iron out the differences between
their bills and send one to the president for his signature to
become law.


Bush has already vowed to veto the measure, and invited lawmakers
to come up with new draft legislation.


"We can discuss the way forward on a bill that is a clean bill, a
bill that funds our troops, without an artificial timetable for
withdrawal and without handcuffing our generals on the ground,"
Bush said.


Reid, the Democratic Senate majority leader, swiftly rejected any
talks which came with strings attached.


House Speaker Nancy Pelosi agreed.


"What the president invited us to do was come to his office so
that we could accept, without any discussion, the bill that he
wants," she said late Tuesday.


"That's not worthy of the concerns of the American people. And I
join with Senator Reid in rejecting an invitation of that kind."

