

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates on Wednesday announced that US
soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan will have their deployment
extended from 12 months to 15.


"Effective immediately, active army units now in the Central
Command area (Iraq and Afghanistan) and those headed there will
deploy for not more than 15 months and will return home to home
station for not less than 12 months," said Gates.


The extension is designed to make enough troops available to
maintain the "surge" in forces that President George W. Bush
announced in January.


The new strategy in Iraq calls for the deployment of nearly
30,000 more US troops in an attempt to secure Baghdad and parts
of Al-Anbar province, and halt the rise in sectarian killings.


There are currently 145,000 US troops in Iraq, a number that
should rise to 160,000 by June once the reinforcements are in
place.


On Monday the Pentagon announced that it gave orders to 13,000
members of the National Guard to be prepared for possible
deployment to Iraq in December.


The new policy applies to all units with the exception of two
brigades that had already been extended to 16-month deployments,
Gates said.


"This policy is a difficult but necessary interim step that will
be kept in place only until we can shift with confidence to the
12-month deployments and 12 months at home and, ultimately, to
the rotation goal for Army active duty forces of 12 months
deployed and 24 months at home," Gates told reporters.


"I believe it is fairer to all soldiers that all share the burden
equally," he said.


Since the March 2003 invasion 3,282 US military personnel have
been killed in Iraq, according to an AFP count based on Pentagon
figures.


Iraqi and US troops have waged a massive military clampdown in
Baghdad for two months that has seen American officials upbeat
about signs of progress.


Gates acknowledged that the US forces "are stretched" with
deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan.


"There's no question about that," he said.


The announcement is an attempt to "provide some long-term
predictability for the soldiers and their families about how long
their deployments will be and how long they will be at home."

