

Sajid Mahmood and Monty Panesar took three wickets apiece as
England bundled Bangaldesh out for a paltry 143 in a World Cup
Super Eights match at the Kensington Oval here on Wednesday.


Pace bowler Mahmood took 3-27 and left-arm spinner Panesar
finished with 3-25 after England captain Michael Vaughan won the
toss and decided to bowl in an attempt to exploit early moisture
and bounce.


Left-hander Saqibul Hasan top-scored with an unbeaten 57 and
added 47 for the seventh wicket with Mashrafe Mortaza (13) to
give Bangladesh's total a degree of respectability on a day when
England did everything right from the start.


Hasan remained unbeaten after a marathon 139-ball knock, hitting
six boundaries and a six. Aftab Ahmed (10) and Abdur Razzak (15)
were the only other batsman to reach double figures.


England's three-pronged pace attack responded to their captain's
call by taking wickets at regular intervals as they bowled to an
accurate line and length in a game which both sides needed to win
to remain in hunt for a semi-final place.


Bangladesh, with opener Shahriar Nafees replacing Javed Omar from
the team which pulled off a stunning 67-run upset of South Africa
in Georgetown last week, lost Tamim Iqbal in the second over of
the innings.


The teenager failed to keep Mahmood's short delivery down and was
caught in the gully.


Iqbal made eight, and was soon followed by captain Habibul Bashar
(four) to a run out off a dropped catch by Vaughan to leave
Bangladesh at 23-2.


Nafees miscued drive off Mahmood was dropped by Vaughan at mid-
wicket, but the England skipper threw the ball to the striker's
end where Bashar, who stopped in the middle before running, was
left stranded.


Nafees failed to capitalise on the chance, and another miscued
drive off Mahmood rebounded off wicket-keeper Paul Nixon's gloves
to second slip where Andrew Strauss snapped up a sharp catch.
Nafees made nine.


Andrew Flintoff bowled Mushfiqur Rahim (seven) with a beautiful
delivery, while James Anderson returned for his second spell to
remove Mohammad Ashraful (one) and Mohammad Aftab in successive
overs to leave Bangladesh reeling at 65-6.


Ashraful, who scored a match-winning 87 against South Africa,
edged a straight delivery to Nixon to end his team's hopes of a
fight back.


Hasan flicked Ravi Bopara to the boundary to bring up the 100 and
then took Bangladesh past their lowest World Cup total of 108
made against South Africa at Bloemfontein in 2003.


Panesar then bowled Mortaza and in his next over had Mohammad
Rafique caught by Strauss.


Mahmood wrapped up the innings when he had Syed Rasel caught in
the slips by Flintoff in the 38th over.

