

The United States expects North Korea to fulfill the terms of a
landmark nuclear deal as a key deadline looms, the State
Department said Wednesday.


"We would expect North Korea to act in such a way that they would
meet their obligations under the February 13 agreement," State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Under the six-nation deal hammered out in Beijing, Pyongyang
should disable its nuclear program in exchange for one million
tons of fuel oil or equivalent aid and diplomatic benefits.


As a first step, it was supposed to shut and seal the Yongbyon
nuclear reactor within 60 days, with the deadline standing at
Saturday, April 14, and invite back IAEA inspectors expelled from
the country in 2002.


"We'll see where we are on Saturday," McCormack said.


"Of course if North Korea does not fulfill its obligations in a
way that us acceptable to the other members of the six-party
talks, then the other members ... will have to examine the
process and see where we are."


New Mexico state governor Bill Richardson, who led a team to
Pyongyang this week, said Wednesday he believed the isolated
country would act to shut down the nuclear reactor within a day
of receiving millions of dollars which have been frozen overseas.


The North has so far refused to move awaiting 25 million dollars
which was frozen in Macau's Banco Delta Asia (BDA) until Tuesday,
when the United States said Macau authorities agreed to release
the funds.


"The North Korean government told us that with that issue
resolved, (it) would move promptly, within a day after receiving
the funds," Richardson told a press conference in Seoul.


But McCormack said Washington was waiting to see what happens and
then the six nations, comprising the two Koreas, the United
States, host China, Russia and Japan, would have to make
decisions based on the facts.


"The facts that we have right now is we are coming up on the 60
day deadline, we expect North Korea to abide by its obligations,"
he said.


Richardson said the next step would be the Macau bank notifying
the North that the money was available for collection. "That
should happen late this afternoon (Wednesday), or tomorrow
morning."


The chief US nuclear negotiator Christopher Hill said earlier
there was no reason for North Korea to delay further.


"The DPRK (North Korea) has access to their accounts now," he
added.


McCormack added that it was clear North Korea "wants a different
kind of relationship with the rest of the world. And in order to
realize that different kind of relationship, they are going to
have to follow through and act in such a way that everybody meets
their objectives.


"I think they understand that this is a process in which their
actions matter and have an effect on how the process proceeds."

