

The US Senate was Wednesday set to adopt a bill to fund
controversial embryonic stem-cell research, braving a new battle
with President George W. Bush who has already vetoed such
legislation.


The Senate is voting on draft legislation which would lift a
restriction on using federal funds for stem-cell research on
human embryos.


But the White House on Tuesday set the stage for a new Bush veto
saying it was unthinkable that public tax dollars should be used
to destroy human embryos.


Bush last year used his power of veto for the first time in his
presidency to slap down a similar text passed in Congress, when
it was then controlled by his Republican party.


He argues that he is protecting human life which begins, he says,
at the moment of conception.


Researchers working under the federal restrictions may currently
only use those cell lines available prior to a ban imposed in
2001 in the first year of Bush's presidency.


But scientists have campaigned hard to end the restrictions,
saying only 20 such lines now exist and the US risks falling
behind in vital research, which may hold the key to medical
advances in treating degenerative diseases.


"These restrictions divert valuable time and effort in a way that
isn't occurring in Britain and Singapore," Brock Reeve, executive
director of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute, recently wrote in
The Washington Post.


"In short, the stem cell sector is at risk of experiencing a
failure to launch at the national level."


Wednesday's vote presages a new standoff between Bush and the now
Democratic- controlled Congress, with the two sides already at
loggerheads over a war funding bill.


A presidential veto already awaits bills, passed but not
reconciled by each house, conditioning emergency funding for the
war in Iraq on setting a schedule for the withdrawal of US
troops.


While a less passionate issue, the stem-cell debate puts Bush at
odds with many leaders of his own party, but more in tune with
his conservative evangelical Christian political "base."


"Support of embryonic stem cell research does not contradict a
pro-life stance," said Mormon conservative Senator Orrin Hatch.


"I have always been pro-life. And I believe a pro-life agenda
demands that we care for the living -- not just the unborn, but
we care for both."


Christian organizations however have loudly condemned what they
say is the exploitation of embryos.


"Millions in the faith community believe that destroying embryos,
through embryonic stem cell research, is the tragic taking of
innocent human life," said the head of the evangelical lobby
Patrick Mahoney.


"In light of this, it is extremely disturbing that the United
States Senate would seek passage of a bill that would force
Christians to pay for embryonic stem cell research with public
tax dollars.


"This shows utter contempt and disdain by the United States
Senate for people of faith."


The Senate will also debate a compromise text sponsored by two
Republicans, which would encourage stem-cell research on "embryos
that have naturally lost the ability to develop into fetuses,
such as those that have died 'naturally' during fertility
treatments."

