

The Bush administration came under intense fire in Congress
Wednesday after a senior official revealed the president had
again delayed imposing sanctions against Sudan over its handling
of the conflict in Darfur.


"We've run out of patience," said an irate Senator Benjamin
Cardin after being told President George W. Bush canceled plans
to impose sanctions against Sudan last month so the United
Nations could pursue negotiations with Khartoum.


Andrew Natsios, Bush's special envoy to Sudan, told a Senate
panel the delay was decided because UN Secretary General Ban Ki-
moon had requested another two to four weeks to persuade Khartoum
to allow UN peacekeepers into Darfur.


"I think we need to give him a chance -- that means if he asks
for a two- to four-week delay we need to give him that," Natsios
said of Ban's request.


It was the latest in a string of postponements of unilateral US
sanctions -- a so-called "Plan B" -- that Natsios first said
would be imposed in January if Sudan's government persisted in
resisting a UN demand for deployment of 20,000 UN-led
peacekeepers to halt a four-year civil war in Darfur.


Several Senators from the opposition Democratic Party sharply
criticized the latest delay and demanded tougher action,
including the use of military force, to end a conflict between
ethnic African rebels and government-backed Arab militia that has
left at least 200,000 people dead and 2.5 million homeless.


"I am at a loss as to why we aren't engaging in everything,
including the use of military force, to stop them," said Joseph
Biden, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.


"I think it's not only not time to take force off the table, it's
time to put force on the table and use it now," he said during a
heated exchange with Natsios. "I think there's a moral imperative
to do that."


"We are being waltzed while people die," added fellow Democrat
Robert Menendez, referring to stalling tactics used for the past
eight months by Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir to avoid
deployment of the UN peacekeepers.


The Sudanese fear the force will undermine Khartoum's sovereignty
over Darfur and could lead to the arrest of officials accused of
warcrimes there.


A string of UN and international leaders has traveled to Khartoum
in recent weeks in a bid to convince Beshir to change course.


South African President Thabo Mbeki was in the Sudanese capital
Wednesday and the number-two official in the US State Department,
John Negroponte, leaves for Sudan and neighboring states on
Thursday.


Natsios defended the decision to give negotiators more time and
said a lull in fighting in Darfur since January had improved
prospects for arranging peace talks between rebel groups and the
government.


Natsios also stressed that multilateral action involving the UN
or European Union would be more effective than go-it-alone US
sanctions.


"We need Ban Ki-moon's support on this," he said.


The White House meanwhile said Bush had spoken to Ban on
Wednesday about "the need for greater action to resolve the
crisis in Darfur," according to a spokesman.


Natsios said the US sanctions package now on Bush's desk included
financial actions against 29 Sudanese companies and tougher
implementation of existing sanctions on 130 other firms, all
linked to the government.


They would also slap travel bans and assets freezes on a Darfur
rebel leader who has been "obstructing" peace efforts and on "war
criminals" among the Sudanese government leaders, he said.


Natsios said the measures would prevent the targeted companies,
some of which are involved in Sudan's oil industry, from doing
business in US dollars -- a tactic already used to pressure Iran
and North Korea over their nuclear programs.


"We believe it will have an effect on the economy, a substantial
effect," Natsios said, adding that discussions were underway with
the Europeans on similar measures that would hit Sudanese
companies' euro dealings.


Natsios declined to provide additional details in public or
discuss possible military action against Khartoum, but said "all
military options are on the table."


Biden argued in favor of a NATO-enforced no-fly zone over Darfur,
a region the size of France, but Natsios said this could harm
efforts to provide humanitarian aid to the 2.5 million displaced
people in the province.

