

A young woman sobs through her veil in front of the carnage at
the governmental palace in central Algiers, targeted by one of
the suicide bombers in Wednesday's attacks.


"I want to know what has happened to my brother, the police
officer, who was on guard here," she cries. The palace employees
continue their work, sweeping up the last of the debris.


A line of police officers, batons in hand, has formed in front of
the white security barriers set up after the attack.


The officers insisted they had no information, as they tried to
move along curious bystanders.


A man with the distraught young woman tries to break through the
line to get to the palace until finally one of the officers tells
him: "All the police officers are dead." He tells him to talk to
the relevant authorities.


The force of the blast devastated up to eight floors of the
building's facade and blew out the windows of dozens of nearby
apartments.


According to unconfirmed reports, several other car bombs found
near other public buildings in the city were defused shortly
before the attack including one at the foot of a nearby public
garden; and another at the Ben Aknoun law faculty.


One police officer, who did not want to be identified, told AFP
that the suicide bomber had driven his Renault Cliot at high
speed into the government palace's guard post.


"An attack like that could not have been done by abandoning a
booby-trapped car in a place that is well guarded, under the
noses of palace security," he said.


Another officer said the bomber had made a test run, driving
around the palace roundabout, before coming back ten minutes
later and accelerating towards the guard post.


The car sped down the ramp leading to the main palace gate,
catching the officers on duty off-guard, before smashing into the
concrete.


"I thought it was an earthquake, something like the end of the
world," said one palace employee.


According to one security source, the car must have been loaded
with at least 150 kilogrammes (330 pounds). All that was left of
it was a mass of blackened metal and debris scattered dozens of
metres around.


Electric wires hung loose from the building, the sheets holding
them in place ripped away by the force of the blast. The office
of Mohammed Sbeibi, director of the Algeria's cabinet, was
devastated, but he emerged unscathed.


The government palace is a solid concrete building that in French
colonial days was a base for the ruling administration.


It was from here that the French president General Charles de
Gaulle made some of his historic speeches.


Out in the outskirts of the capital on the road to the
international airport, shocked inhabitants of the Bab Ezzouar
district were coming to terms with the aftermath of the second
attack.


"May God protect us," sobbed a woman sitting on the pavement,
holding her cheeks as she regarded the carnage before her.


Residents confirmed earlier police reports that the attack had
been carried out by two suicide bombers in cars. The targets this
time were an electricity sub- station and a police station.


The police station in this bustling neighbourhood is made up of
dozens of towers. The front of the building had collapsed after
Wednesday's blast, which also seriously damaged several shops and
apartments.

