

Photographer Larry Birkhead said Wednesday he would not share
custody of Anna Nicole Smith's baby daughter, one day after a
court ruled he was the biological father of the child.


Birkhead, an ex-boyfriend of former Playboy model, stripper and
reality television star Smith who died of an overdose in
February, said he hoped to avoid a further legal wrangle for
custody of seven-month Dannielynn.


"We might go from one fight to another, but I'm hoping that's not
the case because, there's only one dad, and I have no problem
with anyone that has good intentions being allowed to visit the
baby and see the baby and be a part of the baby's life," he told
US network NBC's "Today" morning show.


A court in the Bahamas said on Tuesday that DNA tests showed
Birkhead was "99.9999" percent certain to be the father of
Dannielynn, shattering the claims of Smith's long-time partner
and advisor Howard K. Stern.


Stern said after the ruling he would now back Birkhead's claims
for custody of the child, who could one-day inherit a fortune if
legal action against the family of Smith's billionaire oil tycoon
ex-husband is successful.


Smith's mother, Virgie Arthur, however, indicated she would seek
a share of custody of Dannielynn. A further hearing to discuss
custody arrangements is to take place in the Bahamas on Friday.


Birkhead told "Today" he was not willing to entertain a shared
custody arrangement, however.


"It would imply that I'm unfit as a parent, which I'm not," he
said. "I'm looking forward to giving Dannielynn everything that
she needs and all the love and support."


Meanwhile, Birkhead compared the nail-biting moment when the DNA
test results were revealed in court to winning at the Oscars.


"It was almost like being an Academy Award with a sealed envelope
and they release the name, and you are waiting to hear," said
Birkhead, who filed his paternity claims shortly after
Dannielynn's birth in September.


"To have that heavy weight off your shoulders is just incredible.
It was just a magical moment."


Birkhead, who reportedly visited his daughter at Stern's home on
Thursday, changing her diaper and spoon-feeding her apple sauce
according to reports, is now looking forward to being a full-time
father.


"I'm looking forward to giving Dannielynn everything that she
needs, and all the love and support, and to being a dad," he
said.


"I can't wait for that day. She has lots of toys and a nursery
ready for her. She has everything she's going to need and all I
have to do is give her the love, and that's what I'm ready and
prepared to do."

