

Moroccan security forces hunted for 10 possible suicide bombers
on Wednesday, a day after three militants blew themselves up in
Casablanca as they were chased by police.


"We are searching Casablanca for about 10 extremely dangerous
terrorists, as they are ready like those yesterday to blow
themselves up," police said as they released the identities of
those who died on Tuesday.


King Mohamed VI said that he deeply believed "the fight against
terrorism and its followers is the concern of all."


Moroccans are "deeply attached to their society and their
homeland in the face of extremism, terrorism and all that which
by nature threatens their faith..." he said in a message.


A huge banner unfurled early Wednesday near the site of the
explosions read "Hands off my country, Morocco".


Tuesday's drama began with one man being shot by police as they
surrounded  a house before dawn in the el Fida district of the
city. The man, identified as Mohamed Mentala, came out of the
house carrying a sword and wearing an explosives belt.


Police fired at him twice, preventing him setting off the
explosives. He died later of his wounds.


Police said a second suspect came onto the balcony of the house
and seeing that he was surrounded, blew himself up.


The same afternoon, a police inspector died after a third man
blew himself up in the same district. Two other police officers
and a child were also hurt.


In the final attack five people were wounded, including two
police officers, as a man blew himself up in the main street of
the Hay al Farah district.


All four militants involved in Tuesday's incidents were being
sought by police in connection with an explosion in a Casablanca
Internet cafe on March 11.


They were identified as Mohamed Rachidi, Ayoub Raidy, Said
Belouad and Mentala.


There was universal condemnation of the bombers in the Moroccan
press. One daily, Aujourd'hui le Maroc, said the events amounted
to a "world war" while another, the Economiste, blamed a copy-cat
mentality and satellite television.


"Satellite television exposes the poorest in our towns to what's
happening on the other side of the planet and to events in the
Middle East and this can lead to some copying tragic examples,"
the paper said.


A judicial source said a "terrorist group is being formed and
funded by Moroccans with the aim of carrying out bombings at
Casablanca port and several police stations".


But Mohamed Darif, a specialist on Islamism in Morocco, told AFP
that he found it "hard to imagine that this group did not have
any foreign links.


"On the contrary, it seems that they apply the order given by
Ayman al Zawahri, the number two in Al-Qaeda, to blow yourself up
rather than fall into the hands of the police," he said.


Al-Qaeda recently announced that it had set up a cell in north
Africa.

