

An 8.5 million euro severance payment given to a French aerospace
executive caught widespread flak Wednesday with presidential
election candidates calling it a scandal.


Socialist contender Segolene Royal called on Airbus to withdraw
its proposed 10,000 job cuts across Europe following revelations
of the money paid to former Airbus and EADS chief executive Noel
Forgeard.


When he left last year, Forgeard was awarded 6.1 million euros
(8.2 million dollars) in pay -- more than two years' salary --
and was also entitled to a non-competition indemnity package
payable over two years worth 2.4 million more, according to
company documents released Tuesday.


The company said the payoff was provided for in his contract.


Royal called the payments a "scandal" and a "provocation" as
Airbus battles with major losses caused by delays to its new A380
super-jumbo jet.


"Taking this information into account, I call on Airbus leaders
to withdraw the whole plan so we can start afresh to see which
job cuts are justified by the industrial strategy," Royal said in
a French television interview.


The Communist Party candidate in the election, Marie-George
Buffet, said that Forgeard had "hit the jackpot".


"How can a company give such a bonus to a boss who everyone
agrees was a disastrous manager," she asked in a statement.


The president of the French lower house of parliament Patrick
Ollier expressed "indignation" at the payoff.


The revelation of the severance package also drew criticism from
a small shareholders group APPAC, which described the payments as
"completely immoral" given a painful restructuring programme
underway at Airbus.


"When a chairman destroys a company he should be punished," the
group's chairman Didier Cornardeau said.


Airbus unions expressed their wrath as well.


"We are going to ask (current Airbus chief) Louis Gallois to
explain how you can inflict Power8 (the restructuring programme)
and also ask us to accept that," said Jean-Francois Knepper a
union representative for Force Ouvriere.


Forgeard stood down as co-chief executive of European aerospace
group EADS last July. The pay figures were contained in documents
sent to shareholders before the EADS annual general meeting on
May 4.


He left the company because of the Airbus troubles and
controversy over his decision to exercise share options just
months before news of the problems was announced.


A former advisor to President Jacques Chirac, Forgeard had relied
partly on the French leader's backing to wage -- and win -- a
fierce leadership struggle at the European aerospace group that
saw him named co-chief executive in 2005.


But a source close to Forgeard insisted that the payments linked
to his departure stemmed from "the application of common law to
the termination of contract and did not constitute a dismissal
for an infraction."


It was not the first or last time that a generous payoff has
raised fury.


Before resigning in 2002, Jean-Marie Messier, former head of
French media giant Vivendi Universal, got himself a hefty 21
billion euro golden parachute package.


And on Wednesday it emerged that Serge Tchuruk, the former head
of French telecommunications equipment maker Alcatel, earned 8.2
million euros in 2006, including a severance package of 5.67
million euros.

