

President George W. Bush found himself battling another
diplomatic challenge from congressional opponents Wednesday as
top Democratic lawmakers mulled a precedent-breaking visit to
arch rival Iran.


Bush's spokeswoman said it was "troubling" that the legislators,
including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, would consider breaking the
administration's taboo on direct diplomatic dealings with the
Islamic regime in Tehran.


The two nations have not held diplomatic relations since 1980.


"On a day when the US military reports additional evidence of
Iran's meddling in Iraq with weapons and training that are being
used to kill our soldiers, it's troubling that some Democrats are
making travel arrangements to visit Tehran," said White House
spokeswoman Dana Perino.


She spoke after Democratic Representative Tom Lantos, who
accompanied Pelosi to meet Syrian President Bashar al-Assad over
White House objections last week, said he was ready to go to
Tehran and suggested the speaker was as well.


"Speaking just for myself, I'm ready to go," Lantos told
reporters here late Tuesday. "And knowing the speaker, I think
she might be."


"Because however objectionable, unfair and inaccurate many of
(Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's) statements are, it is
important that we have a dialogue with him," Lantos, a Holocaust
survivor, said.


Pelosi, also at the press conference, did not contradict Lantos,
but she slammed Ahmadinejad's previous denial of the Holocaust as
"so repulsive that they are outside the circle of civilized human
behavior."


She also noted that Lantos, the chairman of the important House
Foreign Affairs Committee, had called for dialogue with the
Islamic republic.


"I think that speaks volumes about the importance of dialogue,"
she said.


The White House last week repeatedly blasted Pelosi's trip to
Syria while muting criticism of visits to Damascus by several of
Bush's Republican allies.


Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice argue that such
ouvertures to Syria and Iran simply encourage "bad behavior",
including the two countries' support for anti-US insurgents in
Iraq as well as for militants in Lebanon and the Palestinian
areas.


The administration has offered to join multi-party negotiations
with Iran only if Tehran first complies with UN demands to freeze
its uranium enrichment program.


Rice has also not ruled out meeting her Iranian counterpart on
the sidelines of an Iraq conference next month, but only to
discuss efforts to stabilize that war-ravaged nation.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Pelosi had not
informed the department of any plans to visit Iran, an act he
said "would certainly be a departure from 27 years of past
practice."


But he noted that US foreign policy is carried out by Bush and
his executive branch and not the Democratic-controlled Congress.


"I don't think that there's any confusion on the part of the
American people or of the international system as to who is
responsible for the formulation of foreign policy as well as its
execution," he said.


The Bush administration has been under intense pressure for
months to engage with both Syria and Iran as part of efforts to
end the sectarian bloodshed in Iraq.


The administration has inched in that direction in recent weeks
by agreeing to attend an Iraq "neighbors conferences" alongside
Syrian and Iranian officials and sending a senior State
Department official to Damascus last month to discuss the issue
of Iraqi refugees.


Bush also broke with past policy by authorising direct contacts
between US and North Korean diplomats in January that paved the
way for a landmark deal the following month on ending Pyongyang's
nuclear weapons program.

