

World oil prices climbed on Wednesday after official data showed
US gasoline stockpiles slumped last week by much more than
expected, ahead of the peak demand season for motor fuel.


Traders also kept a keen eye on major crude producer Iran, which
remains in the international spotlight over its disputed nuclear
energy ambitions.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery jumped 79
cents to 68.21 dollars per barrel in late London electronic
trading, slightly off a peak of 68.69 after the stocks data was
published.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 18 cents to 62.07 dollars per barrel in
pit trading after reaching 62.56 dollars earlier Wednesday.


The drop in gasoline inventories "was the biggest surprise in the
(latest) data and nothing else may matter all that much in the
near term," Citigroup analyst Tim Evans said.


The US Department of Energy said Wednesday that inventories of US
gasoline, or petrol, plunged by 5.5 million barrels to 199.7
million in the week to April 6. Analysts had forecast a drawdown
of 1.4 million barrels.


"A surprisingly massive gasoline inventory draw is likely to push
up gasoline contract prices and prices at the pump," said Jason
Schencker at Wachovia Securities.


Gasoline stockpiles are a crucial focus for the market ahead of
the so-called US driving season that starts next month and sees
many Americans hit the roads for their holidays.


In trading meanwhile, New York crude has stood at around five
dollars below London Brent crude since Monday owing to oversupply
in the central United States.


American refineries are unable to convert enough crude into
gasoline owing to stretched production and limited refining
capacity in the United States, according to industry experts.


Aside from US stockpiles, traders tracked the newsflow on Iran.


On Tuesday, the European Union had urged Tehran not to defy the
United Nations, increasing international diplomatic pressure on
Tehran after its claim that it could enrich uranium on an
industrial scale.


Uranium enrichment is the key sticking point in the row between
Iran and the West because the process can also make the fissile
core for an atomic bomb. The western powers accuse Tehran of
seeking to acquire nuclear arms while Tehran insists its
programme is for power generation only.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest crude exporter, and analysts
fear that further sanctions in the ongoing dispute over the
programme could disrupt oil exports.

