

An eastern Indian state said Wednesday it would not use force to
seize land earmarked for a controversial South Korean steel
plant, even as it moved large numbers of police to the project
site.


The movement of more than 500 police in the last two days to an
area where land has been designated for the massive 12-billion-
dollar POSCO company project triggered fears the state was
planning to move protesters by force.


"We have no intention to use force to acquire land for POSCO's
proposed project," Orissa state mining minister Padmanav Behera
told AFP Wednesday. Officials claim the move is in preparation
for local elections.


The project, which is India's largest foreign direct investment,
has been delayed because of protests by villagers already living
on the land.


Doubts were cast about the project after police in West Bengal
state last month shot at villagers protesting a planned chemical
plant, killing 14 people.


Protesters opposing the POSCO project viewed this week's movement
of police into the area in the state's coastal district, 120
kilometres (76 miles) east of state capital Bhubaneswar, with
suspicion.


"I have a feeling the state is using the poll as a pretext to
forcefully enter the villages and use force to acquire land for
POSCO," said Ajay Sahoo, who heads the movement against the steel
project.


"If that's what the Orissa government has in mind then it's
certainly mistaken."


Orissa officials have said the deployment of 12 platoons of
policemen to the area Tuesday was being carried out to maintain
order during local elections.


"It's not meant to either intimidate or force people to give up
their land," senior district police official Yaswant Kumar Jethwa
said.


"The police is there to facilitate (rural) polls," said Jethwa.


Four more platoons of approximately 33 police each were moved to
the area Wednesday, police said.


A POSCO India spokesman said the company was aware of the
movement of police to the area but did not fear an outbreak of
violence.


"We are not apprehending any clash," said spokesman Shashanka
Pattnaik.


"More and more people are in favour of the project and only a few
handful, who have come from outside, are trying to create some
disturbance for their own vested interests."


But the situation remained tense with police saying they could no
longer allow the protesting villagers to maintain the barricades
they had put up.


"Any effort by protesters to prevent police to clear the
barricades and obstructions put up by them will be dealt with
sternly. We will try our best to discuss, negotiate and convince
protesters to respect law," said Jethwa.


"The use of force is just the last option."

