

Billionaire heiress Belinda Stronach announced Wednesday she is
leaving Canadian politics to help steer her family's auto-parts
empire, ahead of a possible bid for US car maker Chrysler.


In a statement, Stronach said she would rejoin Magna
International Inc. as executive vice-chair.


The company was started by her father and is reportedly planning,
along with Onex Corp., to make an all-Canadian offer for the
troubled Detroit-based car company.


"After being encouraged by members of the corporate leadership at
Magna to return, I have decided that the timing of my return to
the business should not be delayed," Stronach said in a
statement.


"My father (Frank Stronach) is looking to the future, the company
is facing important strategic decisions, and the Canadian and
global auto sector and economy is in a period of great
challenge."


DaimlerChrysler AG put its American unit up for sale amid
shareholder discontent over its continuing losses since the
merger of Germany's Daimler and Detroit- based Chrysler in 1998.


The Globe and Mail newspaper said DaimlerChrysler wants at least
eight billion dollars for Chrysler, but Magna and investment firm
Onex would also have to assume pension and health liabilities
topping 15 billion dollars.


Making seats, trim parts as well as suspension and engine
components for virtually every Chrysler vehicle manufactured in
North America generates about 3.6 billion dollars for Magna, or
about 15 percent of its annual revenues.


In Austria, Magna actually builds entire cars for
DaimlerChrysler.


During her three-year political career, Stronach quickly rose to
become a star MP, and even considered a Liberal leadership bid,
then crashed, left to wallow in the opposition back benches.


She rocked Ottawa with her surprise defection in May 2005 from
the Conservatives to the Liberals, just days before a crucial
confidence vote that followed weeks of political drama that
pitted the Liberals, accused of corruption, against the
Conservatives eager for a chance to govern.


The Liberals won the motion by one vote -- 153 to 152 in support
of its budget. But they were defeated by the Conservatives the
following year in a general election.


According to a recent Stronach biography, Canada's top diplomat
Peter MacKay purportedly erupted with "volcanic fury" when his
then girlfriend defected to the Liberals.


The following year, Stronach again found herself entangled in a
messy affair, accused of breaking up former National Hockey
League winger Tie Domi and his wife.

