

The United States on Wednesday ruled out freeing five Iranians in
US custody in Iraq and rejected Tehran's charge that it tortured
another during a two-month captivity in the war-torn country.


At the same time, the US military in Iraq accused Iranian
intelligence agents for the first time of backing not just the
militias of fellow Shiites but also Sunni extremists -- despite
the religious schism.


"We do have now some information that Iranian intelligence
agencies have supported some Sunni extremist groups," US military
spokesman Major General William Caldwell told reporters in
Baghdad.


Tehran, which denies arming any Iraqi groups, has warned it is
unlikely to attend a high-level May conference in Egypt on Iraq's
security unless Washington releases the five Iranians it seized
in a January raid.


Asked whether the United States was prepared to free them, White
House national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe curtly replied:
"No."


And US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said there was
"no reason in the world why they should not attend this
conference if they truly had an interest in being supportive of
Iraq, Iraqi people and the Iraqi government."


"It's not about the US and Iran, it's not about anything else
other than Iraq," he said, telling reporters that the United
States "would not recognize" any linkage between the fate of the
five and Iran's presence at the talks.


McCormack said that an Iranian request for access to the five was
"still being considered."


Johndroe also rejected charges from Iranian state television that
the United States had severely abused an Iranian diplomat during
a two-month captivity in Iraq, saying that the United States had
nothing to do with his plight.


"The United States was not involved in his detention, and any
suggestion of torture is baseless," Johndroe said after Iranian
television showed footage of Jalal Sharafi's wounds and called
them proof of US torture.


The United States has long accused Iran of improperly meddling in
Iraq, of aiding militias and other forces that have targeted US-
led troops since the fall of Saddam Hussein's regime four years
ago.


US forces has accused the five Iranians it captured in northern
Iraq of seeking to stir trouble in Iraq and has detained them
ever since. Iran says the men are diplomats who were working for
a "consulate."


Iraq has said the ministerial level meeting of its neighboring
countries and world powers will be held in the Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt between May 3-4.


Tehran has repeatedly called for their release. Washington has
responded by saying they are being detained pending an
investigation, although it has not announced any formal charges
against them.


In the Sharafi case, Washington has steadfastly denied any
involvement, and Johndroe welcomed his release when it was
announced last week.


But Iranian state television on Wednesday showed footage of
Sharafi in hospital, his feet badly bruised and body covered by
sensors, as he was visited by the head of the International
Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) delegation in Iran, Peter
Stocker.


"The United States, whose officials make claims about human
rights, drilled holes into the legs of Jalal Sharafi and there
were signs of damage to his nose and neck," state television
said.


Washington has denied any role in the detention of Sharafi, who
was freed on April 3 amid the standoff between London and Tehran
over the captured British sailors who were released the next day.

