

Backers of the international Energy Globe awards, hosted by the
European parliament on Wednesday, castigated the US for its
global role in conflicts and environmental degradation.


The prime movers behind schemes for solar power systems in
southern India homes and to dry vegetables in Kenya were among
the laureates at an international energy awards ceremony in
Brussels.


And while one American project was among the winners, the US in
general and President George W Bush in particular were cast in
the role of villains.


"In the last eight years of Mr Bush I think the world has
suffered more than it has suffered in the last hundred years in
terms of environmental degradation," Maneka Gandhi, chairwoman of
international Energy Globe Jury, told reporters ahead of the gala
event.


"America  has suddenly become a monster and it has destroyed more
in Iran, Iraq, Afghan, Sudan the Middle East. What is this
starting these silly fake wars which have killed millions and
millions and created huge environmental degradation?" added
Gandhi, a member of the Indian Congress party and former
environment minister.


"Bush should have been declared a terrorist long ago," the member
of the legendary Gandhi family said.


One of the guest presenters, Hollywood actor Martin Sheen, who
played a US president in a recent US television series, said that
"the only thing we lack in America is leadership".


"The United States is the world's biggest energy consumer as well
as the world's biggest polluter," he told the audience seated, in
a rare departure from parliamentary protocol, in the MEPs' seats.


European parliamentary president Hans-Gert Poettering was among
the guests.


The celebrity contingent included Robin Gibb, member of the Bee
Gees pop group, and British violinist Nigel Kennedy who performed
at the televised event.


Awards on the night were given in categories of fire, earth,
water and air along with a youth award and a "national honorary
award" which went to host nation Belgium for an integration of
energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies.


The earth award went to a Kenyan scheme employing solar energy to
dry fruit and vegetables.


The fire award went to a Danish-supported scheme to equip 16,000
homes in southern India with solar power systems.


The water award went to a US developed water filter produced from
recycled waste polyester.


The air award went to biogas micro-plant in Vietnam and the youth
award to solar powered house in South Africa designed by the
University of Art in Linz, Austria.


The annual awards, decided by a jury, have been organised since
2000 by the GEG agency led by veteran Austrian environmental
campaigner Wolfgang Neumann.

