

Once a rising star in Canada's parliament, billionaire heiress
Belinda Stronach said Wednesday she is quitting politics to help
steer her family's auto-parts empire, ahead of a possible bid for
US car maker Chrysler.


In a statement, Stronach said she would rejoin Magna
International Inc. as executive vice-chair.


The company was started by her father and is reportedly planning,
along with Onex Corp., to make an all-Canadian offer for the
troubled Detroit-based car company.


"After being encouraged by members of the corporate leadership at
Magna to return, I have decided that the timing of my return to
the business should not be delayed," Stronach said in a
statement.


"My father (Frank Stronach) is looking to the future, the company
is facing important strategic decisions, and the Canadian and
global auto sector and economy is in a period of great
challenge."


DaimlerChrysler AG put its American unit up for sale amid
shareholder discontent over its continuing losses since the
merger of Germany's Daimler and Chrysler in 1998.


The Globe and Mail said DaimlerChrysler wants at least eight
billion dollars for Chrysler, but Magna and investment firm Onex
would also likely have to assume its pension and health
liabilities topping 15 billion dollars.


Making seats, trim parts as well as suspension and engine
components for virtually every Chrysler vehicle manufactured in
North America generates about 3.6 billion dollars for Magna, or
about 15 percent of its annual revenues.


In Austria, Magna builds entire cars for DaimlerChrysler.


Stronach was chief executive of Magna between 2001 and 2004.


During her subsequent three-year political career, she quickly
rose to become a star MP, and even considered a Liberal
leadership bid, then crashed, left to wallow in the opposition
back benches.


Stronach rocked Ottawa with her surprise defection in May 2005
from the Conservatives to the Liberals, just days before a
crucial confidence vote that followed weeks of political drama
that pitted the ruling Liberals, accused of corruption, against
the Conservatives eager for a chance to govern.


The Liberals won the motion by one vote -- 153 to 152 in support
of its budget. But they were defeated by the Conservatives the
following year in a general election.


According to a recent Stronach biography, Canada's top diplomat
Peter MacKay erupted with "volcanic fury" when his then
girlfriend defected to the Liberals.


MacKay, who was deputy leader of the Conservatives, begged her
not to defect, author Don Martin wrote. But Stronach ignored his
pleas.


MacKay then treated her to "snide comments, nasty e-mails and
furious glares across the (House of) Commons aisle," the
biography said, including a defiant gesture with his tie, which
she had given him just a few weeks earlier, as she cast her vote
to keep the Liberals in power.


Television cameras also caught MacKay sulking around his family
farm in eastern Canada that week, nursing his heartbreak. "I'm
going to go home and maybe walk my dog. Dogs are loyal," he told
local newspapers.


The following year, Stronach would again find herself entangled
in a messy affair, accused of breaking up former National Hockey
League winger Tie Domi and his wife.


In a divorce petition, Leanne Domi alleged her husband, who
retired from the Toronto Maple Leafs in September, had an
"intimate relationship" with Stronach that soured their marriage
and his relationship with their three children.


Leanne Domi said in court documents the affair likely started in
January 2006 when he began to work on Stronach's re-election
campaign, which she found unusual because the hockey enforcer had
"little to no interest in politics."

