

New York authorities are to break ground on the city's first
entirely new subway line in 70 years on Thursday, but after
several false starts, many are skeptical the project will ever
get under way.


Plans for a Second Avenue line go back to 1929 but were abandoned
during the Great Depression. Proposals were revived in the 1940s
and authorities even held a groundbreaking ceremony in 1972
before a financial crisis again halted work.


But transport authorities are adamant that the project will not
be derailed this time, promising a state-of-the-art project that
will eventually link Harlem in the north of Manhattan to the
southern tip of the island.


While the first stage of the project is tentatively due to be
ready by 2013, the entire 13.5-kilometer (8.5-mile) line is not
expected to open before 2020.


The mammoth engineering project involves creating 16 new
stations, boring tunnels under long stretches of eastern
Manhattan and will see several properties demolished to make way
for vents and emergency exits.


Transport authorities are mulling plans to introduce sleek glass
screens along the length of the platforms on the new line, as is
the case on some subway lines in cities including London, Paris
and Hong Kong.


Artist impressions of the new line are a far cry from the run
down and dirty older sections of the subway, much of which dates
back more than a century.


The planned new line is designed to reduce overcrowding and
delays on other lines and to improve connections to the Lower
East Side of New York especially.


But the fact that unveiling plans for the new line has coincided
with financial crises over the years has not escaped the
attention of many, with some labelling the phenomenon "The curse
of Second Avenue."


"New York's odd record of trumpeting plans for the Second Avenue
subway just as we're on the cusp of economic, financial, and/or
fiscal turmoil actually makes perfect sense," the New York Post
recently wrote.


"Just as cabbies giving stock tips is a sign that speculation has
run wild, so too are grand schemes from politicians a sign of
unrealistic political optimism," it said.


Many have questioned the need and expense of a new line, with the
budget for the first phase of construction alone running to
nearly four billion dollars.


If it does go ahead as planned, the project will be the first
completely new line on the New York subway system since 1936,
when the Sixth Avenue line was unveiled.

