

The United States on Wednesday strongly condemned suicide
bombings which killed more than two dozen people in Algeria and
Morocco and said Al-Qaeda-linked Islamic militants remained a
"persistent threat" in North Africa.


"These horrific acts indiscriminately killed members of the
security services and civilians alike," said State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack.


"The United States condemns the terrorist attacks," he said,
echoing a similar statement by the White House spokeswoman.


"We stand with the Moroccan and Algerian people and their
governments in the struggle against extremism and violence and
support their efforts to secure a future peace," McCormack
continued.


"There is no political justification for the murder of innocent
life," he said.


At least 23 people were killed and more than 160 hurt when two
car bombs exploded in the Algerian capital on Wednesday, a day
after five died in Morocco in an incident that saw three
militants blow themselves up while being pursued by police.


Al-Qaeda's branch in North Africa claimed responsibility for
Wednesday's attacks in Algiers, but US officials said they had no
confirmation of who was responsible or whether the bombings in
the neighboring nations were linked.


"We do know that Al-Qaeda and Al-Qaeda affiliates have been
active in the past in North Africa," he said, calling their
presence there "a current and persistent threat."


But McCormack added that "we're going to have to wait on the
results of some further investigations before we're able to
determine any possible linkage and to verify the claim."


"We'll support Moroccan and Algerian authorities in whatever
appropriate way in order to identify those individuals, and, of
course, we want to see them brought to justice," he said.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said US authorities were
already working with their Moroccan and Algerian counterparts.


"We stand with them as they try to find out the cause or the
impetus for the attacks," she said.

