

The UN special envoy to Afghanistan on Wednesday warned that
Western efforts could fail in Afghanistan, deeming the situation
"critical" as suicide attacks increase at an alarming rate.


"We have to combat terrorism" the veteran German envoy told the
European parliament's foreign affairs commission in Brussels,
referring to the Taliban militia attacks in Afghanistan.


"In 2005 there were 17 suicide attacks (in Afghanistan). In 2006
that figure rose to 139. During the first three months of 2007
that rate doubled," he said.


"The challenge is great. We could fail in Afghanistan which is
the fifth poorest country in the world," he said


"I cannot deny that the situation is critical in Afghanistan, but
considerable progress has been made in two-thirds of the
country," he added, citing the return since 2001 of millions of
displaced and exiled Afghans and the revival of the schools
system.


"Even if in the centre the vast majority of Afghans detest the
Taliban, there are some places where more than 20 percent of the
population support them," he said.


The situation in the country's south was particularly concerning
as "forces of destabilisation want to put back the progress
attained in the rest of the country".


"It's an insurrection, not just vestiges of small guerrilla
groups in the south," warned Koenigs, who took up his post in
February 2006.


He said that following the fall of the Taliban government in 2001
"we made an error in the south" by treating the problem as purely
a military and political one, rather than dealing with
development issues.


Now, the UN envoy said, "our long-term responsibility is to
defend our values... and to prevent what is happening in
Afghanistan becoming a threat to security and peace throughout
the world".


He said that the US-led efforts in Afghanistan would need to
continue for "many years" and that a withdrawal of the NATO-led
International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) would allow
Afghanistan to flood the world with opium.


The US-led coalition has around 12,000 troops in Afghanistan
while more than 30,000 soldiers are deployed in the Central Asian
nation with the separate ISAF contingent.

