

The United States held off on a decision to impose unilateral
sanctions against Sudan last month to give UN Secretary General
Ban Ki-moon a last chance to convince Khartoum to allow UN
peacekeepers into its war-torn Darfur region, a senior US
official said Wednesday.


Andrew Natsios, President George W. Bush's special envoy to
Sudan, said Washington was on the verge of imposing financial and
other sanctions against the Sudanese at the end of last month but
held off because a US congressional delegation was in Khartoum at
the time.


Ban then asked on April 2 for an additional two to four weeks to
pressure Sudan's government to lift its opposition to deployment
of the UN force of some 20,000 troops to Darfur before turning to
sanctions.


"I think we need to give him a chance -- that means if he asks
for a two- to four-week delay we need to give him that," Natsios
told a Senate hearing.


The US sanctions package now on Bush's desk includes financial
actions against 29 Sudanese companies and a toughening of
implementation of existing sanctions on 130 other firms, all
linked to the Khartoum government, he said.


They would also slap travel bans and assets freezes on a Darfur
rebel leader who has been "obstructing" peace efforts and on "war
criminals" among the Sudanese government leaders, he said.


Natsios said the measures would include financial steps
preventing the targeted companies, some of which are involved in
Sudan's oil industry, from doing business in US dollars.


"The sanctioned companies, in fact, will have some of their
operations paralyzed," he said.


"We believe it will have an effect on the economy, a substantial
effect," he said.


Natsios declined to name the new companies or individuals to be
hit by the sanctions and would not discuss in public possible
military actions the US could propose to force Khartoum's hand
and end violence against civilians in Darfur, saying it was
Bush's prerogative to make such things public.


But he did say "all military options are on the table" in the
administration's deliberations.


US officials have said these could include a NATO enforced no-fly
zone over Darfur, but Natsios appeared to play down the option by
saying it could have a negative impact on efforts to provide
humanitarian aid to some 2.5 million displaced people in the
province.


Under intense international pressure and the threat of further
sanctions, the government of Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir
agreed last year to allow the deployment of some 20,000 UN-led
peacekeepers to replace an under-funded and ineffective African
Union force of 7,000 in Darfur.


But he backed away from the accord and has been stalling on the
issue for months.


A string of UN and international leaders has travelled to
Khartoum in recent weeks in a bid to convince Beshir to change
course.


South African President Thabo Mbeki was in the Sudanese capital
Wednesday and the number two official in the US State Department,
John Negroponte, leaves for Sudan and neighboring states on
Thursday.


At least 200,000 people have died in Darfur since the region's
ethnic African majority rebelled against the Arab-led central
government four years ago, complaining of neglect and
discrimination.


Government-backed militia drawn from Darfur's nomadic Arab
population have destroyed scores of villages in a scorched earth
policy that the US has officially described as "genocide."


Natsios said that there had been a lull in violence against
civilians in Darfur since the beginning of the year, but that
fighting and attacks had spread dangerously to neighboring Chad
and the Central African Republic (CAR).

