

Researchers in the United States have isolated a set of four
genes closely linked to the growth of breast cancer cells and
their spread to the lungs, according to a study released
Wednesday.


The findings suggest that combination drug treatments could
inhibit these mutant genes from forming tumours and promoting
metastasis, the process by which cancer cells infect other organs
after moving through the blood stream or the lymphatic system.


In an experiment on mice injected with human cancer cells, "two
drugs clinically available showed at least a ten-fold reduction
in the rate of growth of lung tumours" when administered
together, Joan Massague, a cancer biologist and lead author of
the study, told AFP.


Most deaths from cancer are due to metastasis.


Massague and a team of scientists at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
Cancer Center in New York City reported their findings in the
current issue of the British journal Nature.


The study showed that the four defective genes, acting
"synergistically," formed "a tortuous and highly permeable
network of blood vessels" in tumours.


To confirm that the genes were acting together to spread the
cancer, the researchers deactivated them in mice through genetic
manipulation in breast cancer cells that were metastasizing to
the lungs. The result was an almost complete curtailment of
growth and expansion.


Such genetic tinkering is not feasible as a form of therapy,
Massague told AFP.


The study also noted that there was a "division of labour"
between different gene categories, with some involved exclusively
in metastasis and other in fueling tumour growth.


There are many kinds of cancer, but all are characterized by the
uncontrolled division of human cells that spread either by
invading adjacent tissue or through metastasis.


When normal cells are damaged beyond repair, they are programmed
to self- destruct through a process called apoptosis. But when
cancer strikes, this mechanism fails to work, and the defective
cells continue to multiply unchecked.


The four genes identified are already well known to cancer
researchers, but this is the first study to clearly demonstrate
how their combined effect accelerates the spread of cancer.


The study also tested the capacity of several drugs, known to
inhibit the activity of each gene, to block cancerous growth.


Taken individually, the three drugs had little if any impact in
halting the proliferation of cancer in mice injected with tumour
cells, mirroring the results obtained through genetic
manipulation.


When combined, however, the pharmaceutical cocktail reduced
tumour growth by roughly 50 percent compared to mice deprived of
any treatment. In human patients, breast cancer tumours are
removed surgically.


More significant, Massague said, was the ten-fold reduction in
growth obtained by targeting the genes that help cancer cells
spread from the tumour in the mammary glands to the lungs.


Despite major advances in hormonal and targeted therapies, the
median survival period after diagnosis of metastatic breast
cancer patients is less than two years.


The authors remain very cautious in describing the therapeutic
potential of their findings.


"It is not as simple as it sounds," explained Massague. "We are
not talking about taking patients out of chemotherapy to do the
tests -- the question is how to combine current treatment with
the drug combinations."


Clinical trials, set to begin soon, could yield preliminary
results within a couple of years, he said.


The implications of the study, he added, could extend well beyond
breast cancer to other forms forms of the disease -- such as
colon and liver cancer -- that involve the same genes and can
metastasize to the lungs.


Breast cancer is one of the most common type of carcinoma, the
formation of malignant tumors in cells found in the skin and in
the lining of certain organs, including the lungs and the colon.

