

Team managers and top riders were among those cursing the
organisers of the Gent-Wevelgem one-day classic here Wednesday as
the treacherous cobblestones sent several riders to hospital.


The descent of the Kemmel climb, completed twice by the peloton,
took the biggest toll and left one rider, Frenchman Jimmy Casper,
in intensive care.


Unibet's Casper sustained head, face, and shoulder injuries when
he came down hard on the downhill section some 50km from the
finish.


He lay bloodied and prone after he came off his bike, flipped
over and scraped his face across the ground and is now in
hospital awaiting surgery.


Australians Mathew Hayman, Luke Roberts and Matt Wilson, and
American Tyler Farrar also fell victim to the cobbles, which at
some parts were made slippier by water from the water bottles
that had shook loose as the bikes' violently jittered over the
terrain.


Cofidis rider Farrar is at the same hospital in Ypres as Casper.
The American is believed to be suffering from a hairline fracture
of the kneecap, and could be out for a month.


His team manager, Alain Deloeil, hit out: "It's an absolute
disgrace. This part of the course is too dangerous. In past years
we lost two riders at this section, and I know of plenty of
others who have crashed here.


"What has to happen before we change something?"


He added: "Some of the guys who ride past lose their water
bottles, which open on to the cobblestones and make them even
more slippy.


"Really, it's not worthy of being called a ProTour race."


Italian ace Alessandro Petacchi also fell victim on the descent,
but unlike his teammates Marco Velo and Fabio Sacchi he escaped
unhurt.


"My bike was broken and I couldn't get a spare," said Petacchi,
more fearful for two of the teammates who usually form part of
his sprint train.


Velo, who fell due to a water bottle in his path, has a suspected
broken collar bone while Sacchi has a suspected thigh injury.


Belgium's Tom Boonen, a big favourite for Paris-Roubaix - which
usually features 50km of even more treacherous cobblestones - has
lost one of his teammates for Sunday's race.


Quick Step's Wilfried Cretskens picked up a right arm knock, and
while no fracture has been diagnosed he has been ruled out of the
'Hell of the North'.

