

India expects to pass legislation cutting  high duties on
imported wines and spirits before the World Trade Organisation
can complete an investigation into the levies, a report said
Wednesday.


India on Tuesday rejected the European Union's demand that the
WTO set up a special panel to rule on the dispute, in accordance
with its rights under WTO procedures, calling the initiative
premature because of discussions underway.


"The issue will again come up before the dispute settlement body
within the next three weeks ... and the panel will be set up to
investigate high duties," the Press Trust of India quoted an
unnamed source as saying.


"But as the process will take time, the government expects to
pass a bill to reduce duties before the verdict is delivered,"
the source said.


The EU is expected to renew its request at the next meeting of
the WTO's Dispute Settlement Body on April 24, when India will
not be able to block it again. The United States submitted a
similar complaint to the WTO over India's wine and spirit duties
in early March.


Combined duties and taxes are as high as 550 percent on imported
spirits and as much as 264 percent on imported wine, according to
an EU report.


Indian Commerce Minister Kamal Nath said last month that New
Delhi remained committed to resolving the dispute.


"We recognise that tariffs are high. We are in talks with the EU
... they are at an advanced stage. I believe this situation will
be corrected," he said.


India currently imposes a basic customs duty of 100 to 150 per
cent and additional customs duty of up to 150 per cent on wines
and spirits. Taxes push the levies on imported wines and spirits
to between 250 and 550 per cent.


The proposed legislation would retain the basic duty but abolish
the additional customs duty, according to the Indian news agency.


It would also give states the right to impose an extra levy
equivalent to the excise on domestic wines and spirits, putting
imported and domestic products on an equal footing, the news
agency said.


India, home to 1.1 billion people and a fast-growing middle
class, represents a potentially huge market for both European and
US wine and spirits exporters.


EU statistics agency Eurostat said that in 2004, EU wine and
spirits exports to India amounted to just 27.3 million euros
(36.7 million dollars), out of a total EU export market worth 9.5
billion euros.

