

Chad's President Idriss Deby Itno Wednesday vowed to improve ties
with Khartoum after serious border clashes as his Sudanese
counterpart said he hoped external mediation would end the
crisis.


"I am happy that President Deby assured me he would stick to the
Tripoli accord," Libyan mediator Abdel Salem Triki, the number
two in the foreign ministry in charge of African affairs, told
reporters after meeting Deby.


"Chad is committed to improving and normalising relations with
Sudan," said Triki, who had been despatched by Libyan leader
Moamer Kadhafi to try to get the neighbours to mend fences after
the latest upsurge in violence.


Triki's visit comes two days after deadly clashes between forces
of the two oil- rich countries across their increasingly volatile
border.


Sudan said 17 of its soldiers were killed in the fighting.
Chadian officials said 30 were killed on both sides after its
forces pursued rebels across the border and ran into regular
Sudanese troops.


Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir said in Khartoum he was
counting on South African mediation to help contain tensions with
Chad.


Al-Beshir, speaking after talks with South African President
Thabo Mbeki who often plays a peacemaking role, said Mbeki was in
touch with Chadian officials to help build bridges.


"God willing, these contacts will yield positive results," the
Sudanese leader said.


The Libyan government has tried to mediate between the two
countries in recent months by posting Libyan monitors on the
border and calling on both Chad and Sudan to respect agreements
signed in Tripoli in 2006.


But the two countries routinely trade accusations, with Chad
complaining that the Sudanese-backed Janjaweed militia raids
villages near the border and Sudan accusing Chad of violating
international agreements and backing anti-government rebels.


Libyan mediator Triki however admitted that "there were certain
steps that have to be taken" by the belligerents, adding that
Deby and al-Bashir should hold talks.


But Sudan on Wednesday toned down a thinly veiled threat to
retaliate, saying it was determined build bridges with Chad.


Foreign Minister Lam Akol said Khartoum was "firmly committed to
finding a peaceful solution to this problem," after talks with
South African leader Mbeki.


Some observers however voiced fears that the latest fighting
could take tensions to a new high.


An analyst said that the two nations had been fighting a proxy
war with each other by backing cross-border rebels but "now we
are starting to fear a direct confrontation between the two."


He underlined that Chad was using its newly-found oil wealth to
acquire an armoury of sophisticated weapons.

