

World leaders reacted with horror to the double suicide bombing
in Algiers claimed by Al-Qaeda that killed at least 23 people and
wounded 160 Wednesday.


Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed his "sorrow and
indignation" in a statement released by the Kremlin.


"This criminal act of terrorism once again confirms that
terrorism has no ethnic or religious identity and is one of the
greatest challenges the entire international community faces
today," he added.


In Washington, both the White House and the State Department
condemned the attacks.


"These horrific acts indiscriminately killed members of the
security services and civilians alike," said State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack.


"The United States condemns the terrorist attacks," he added.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said US authorities were
already working with their Moroccan and Algerian counterparts.


"We stand with them as they try to find out the cause or the
impetus for the attacks," she said.


In the Middle East, the secretary general of the Arab League, Amr
Mussa, condemned the attacks.


The monarchies of the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar also
denounced the attacks in separate statements.


In Brussels, European Union foreign policy chief Javier Solana
said: "I condemn with the strongest force the bloody attacks
perpetrated today in Algiers which caused a high number of
casualties.


"These were odious and cowardly acts," he added, offering his
condolences to the families of the victims.


French President Jacques Chirac condemned what he called the
"terrible attacks" in a message of solidarity to Algerian
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika. Algeria was until 1962 a French
colony.


Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said in a
telegram to Bouteflika that he "was profoundly moved by the
terrible news of the tragic terrorist attacks perpetrated today
in Algiers."


He added: "I want to express in my name and in the name of the
government of Spain my most profound solidarity and my strong
condemnation."


Twenty-nine mainly Moroccan accused are on trial in Spain for the
March 11, 2004 train bombings in Madrid which killed 191 people
and wounded hundreds in the country's worst terrorist attack.


A statement issued from the United Nations headquarters said the
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon deplored the attacks and sent
his condolences to President Bouteflika.

