

French presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy and the office of
President Jacques Chirac on Wednesday denied a report that they
had struck a deal to shield Chirac from a corruption probe after
he leaves office.


The Canard Enchaine satirical weekly reported that Sarkozy had
agreed to protect Chirac in exchange for an endorsement of his
candidacy ahead of the April 22 election.


"It's grotesque, it's hurtful and it's untrue," said Sarkozy, 52,
the candidate of the governing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP)
party.


"I deny it in the firmest and fullest terms," he said during a
campaign swing through the north Paris suburb of Villepinte.


Quoting sources close to Chirac, the weekly reported that "in
exchange for Chirac's support for his candidacy, Sarkozy made a
commitment, if he wins, to avoid any judicial backlash for
Chirac."


Chirac's presidential immunity runs out a month after he steps
down on May 16.


A spokesman for Chirac's office said the allegations were
"totally groundless and untrue. This is scandalous and
unacceptable behaviour that cannot even be excused given the
election period."


Rather than a specific amnesty for corruption, Sarkozy would
introduce a provision as part of a new anti-crime bill that would
set a 10-year limit on the time a judge has to close a case, the
weekly said.


That measure would close the book on three corruption cases that
date back more than 10 years, when Chirac was mayor of Paris from
1977 to 1995, according to the Canard Enchaine.


Two cases deal with the illegal use of Paris city funds to pay
staff and sympathisers of Chirac's Rally for the Republic (RPR)
party, the predecessor of the governing UMP.


A third case surrounds a Paris printing firm which is suspected
of rigging public tender contracts and of funding the RPR via the
mayor's office.


Last month justice officials said Chirac, 74, would be questioned
after he left office in May by a judge looking into the illegal
party-funding scheme, although no date had been set.


The opposition Socialist Party whose candidate Segolene Royal is
trailing Sarkozy in the polls formally requested that each
candidate make a pledge if elected to "not silence, meddle with
or grant an amnesty in any ongoing judicial case."


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou said that if true, the secret
deal would be "obviously unacceptable", adding that he would
ensure that all legal proceedings were allowed to follow their
course if he was elected president.


"Justice must be independent and all must be equal before the
law, be they powerful or miserable," said Bayrou.


National Assembly president Patrick Ollier, a UMP member,
defended the idea of a 10-year statutory limitation on
investigations, saying it would meet concerns about the speedy
delivery of justice.


But Ollier said the newspaper report was making "intolerable
accusations" against Sarkozy.


Chirac gave his official endorsement to Sarkozy's bid for the
presidency last month, shortly after announcing that he would be
stepping down after 12 years in office and not seek a third term.


Sarkozy is currently the favourite to win the presidential
election, taking place in two rounds on April 22 and May 6.


The potentially damaging report came as Sarkozy faced a volley of
attacks for comments in which he argued that paedophilia was a
genetic trait -- described by Royal Wednesday as "very dangerous"
and the sign of "a very alarming view of humanity".


Sarkozy traveled to the Paris suburb of Villepinte to attend a
ceremony for new French citizens and hammer home his message on
"national identity", which he has turned into a chief campaign
theme.


In the hour-long ceremony, he told participants that France "will
give you everything, so long as you know how to respect and love
it."


Sarkozy -- whose tough rhetoric on law and order made him a hate
figure in predominantly-immigrant suburbs -- has mostly stayed
away from those areas during the campaign.

