

Argentine football legend Diego Maradona made a "surprising"
recovery after 13 days hospitalized for alcohol abuse treatment,
his doctor said Wednesday.


The former Argentina captain, 46, was discharged from the
hospital just after midnight Tuesday (0300 GMT Wednesday)
accompanied by family members.


The star's "physical and psychological evolution is so good, even
I am astonished," said Maradona's personal doctor, Alfredo Cahe,
speaking at a mid- day press conference.


Maradona's recovery was "so surprising" that he may be healthy
enough to go to the stadium on Sunday and see the annual clash
between Argentina's two football titans, Boca Juniors -- his
former club -- and River Plate, Cahe said.


Maradona, who is idolized in Argentina, has a special booth at
the Boca stadium open to him for life.


The star was rushed to the Guemes Sanatorium on March 28 for
treatment for toxic hepatitis induced by overdrinking. He lost
between six and seven kilos (13 and 15 pounds) during the
hospital stay.


It is not the first time Maradona, named one of the 20th
century's greatest players after leading his squad to the 1986
World Cup title, has been hospitalized due to his excessive
lifestyle.


But according to Cahe, this time Maradona has acknowledged his
problems.


"Diego is very intelligent, extremely intuitive," Cahe said. "It
is difficult to maintain with him a dialogue with questions and
answers, but he knows how to listen."


Recent Argentine media reports have focused on Maradona's heavy
drinking and obesity, noting he has put back on many pounds
(kilograms) since undergoing gastric bypass surgery in 2005 to
get his weight under control.


Maradona "is lucid, coherent, calm," said Daniel Tejada, one of
the two psychiatrists that looked after him at the hospital.


Hospital director Hector Pezzella however said that Maradona
"must follow the prescribed treatment and diet."


The star will receive 24-hour control for at least two weeks at
home by a team that includes a doctor, a psychiatrist and nurses,
Pezzella said.


Doctors will consider after that whether to fly him to
Switzerland for further treatment, Cahe said.


A family source at the hospital said Maradona would be taken to
the home of his girlfriend Veronica Ojeda in the south side of
Buenos Aires, but that could not be confirmed.


Maradona's career on and off the football field has been marred
by repeated drug and alcohol abuse. He has suffered from chronic
hepatitis since he contracted hepatitis B in 1991, while he
played for Barcelona.


His problems only worsened after he retired from professional
football in 1997. In 2000, Maradona had a heart attack in Uruguay
following a cocaine overdose.


Four years later, another heart attack followed another overdose.


While he stayed in the hospital this time, he was accompanied for
almost the entire period by his daughters Dalma and Giannina. At
times as well his ex-wife Claudia Villafane was at his side.

