

UN chief Ban Ki-moon is studying a letter he received from Prime
Minister Fuad Siniora of Lebanon regarding the proposed
international tribunal on the murder of Lebanese ex-premier Rafiq
Hariri, his press office said Wednesday.


"We are in receipt of the letter from Mr Siniora and we're
studying it," UN deputy spokeswoman Marie Okabe told reporters
here.


In Beirut, Siniora's press office said the letter asked Ban to
bring the issue before the 15-member UN Security Council "to
study alternative ways and means to establish quickly the
international tribunal."


The Western-backed Lebanese premier stressed that the tribunal
was needed "to preserve freedoms and end the cycle of political
attacks."


Last week, the UN chief said Lebanon's pro-Syrian parliament
speaker Nabih Berri had called for a Saudi-sponsored meeting of
rival Lebanese parties to break the impasse over creation of the
court.


He said Berri also suggested that Nicolas Michel, the UN's top
legal adviser, would attend that meeting and provide the
necessary advice.


Meanwhile Lebanon's Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah proposed on
Sunday that a referendum could resolve the political deadlock
between the pro- and anti-Syrian camps in Lebanon.


A solution to the crisis since six pro-Syrian ministers walked
out of the Western-backed Beirut government in November,
paralyzing the cabinet, could come through "either organizing a
referendum or holding early elections", he said.


Nasrallah, whose Syrian-backed Shiite Muslim group heads the
opposition, has been pressing for the formation of a new
government of national unity while the Siniora's cabinet has
ruled out early polls.


In criticizing Siniora, the Hezbollah leader said in a televised
speech that the way to resolve domestic problems was "not to
resort to foreign parties but to the people."


Nasrallah slammed a call by 70 anti-Syrian MPs for the UN
Security Council to step in and use its power to set up an
international court to try those involved in the 2005 murder of
former Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri.


Many Lebanese accuse Syria of killing Hariri and 22 others in a
massive car bomb in Beirut. Damascus has denied any involvement.


The United Nations and Lebanon's government have signed a deal to
set up the tribunal, but it must be ratified by the country's
divided parliament.


Lebanon's pro-Syrian opposition objects to the way the Beirut
government has handled plans to create the court under UN
auspices and has so far blocked all moves to set it up.


Hariri and 22 others were killed in a massive bomb blast in
February 2005 in Beirut. An initial UN enquiry report implicated
Damascus in the slaying but Syria has denied involvement.

