

Urawa Red Diamonds beat Shanghai Shenhua 1-0 on Wednesday to
virtually end their interest in this year's AFC Champions League.


Highly rated playmaker Yuki Abe headed in a free-kick just before
half-time to leave the newly formed Chinese club rooted to the
foot of Group E with zero points at the halfway stage.


With only three group games left, Shanghai need a miracle to
overhaul the J-League champions, who lead the group with seven
points.


There was some consolation for Chinese fans when Shandong Luneng
hammered Dong Tam Long An 4-0 to remain on top of Group G with a
maximum nine points.


Han Peng scored either side of half-time before Wang Yongpo and
Li Jinyu rounded off a routine win against the bottom-placed
Vietnamese.


Al Hilal replaced Uzbekistan's Pakhtakor at the top of Group B
with a 2-0 win in Tashkent thanks to second-half strikes from
Omar Al Ghamdi and Rodrigo Aflen.


Meanwhile Kawasaki Frontale took a big step towards the knock-out
stages with an impressive 3-1 away win over Chunnam Dragons.


Juninho hit two for Kawasaki -- either side of a 35-yard blast
from fellow Brazilian marksman Magnum Tavares -- as the Japanese
stretched their Group F lead. Kang Min-soo headed Chunnam's
injury-time consolation.


With three matches remaining, unbeaten Kawasaki are three points
ahead of the Korean FA Cup holders. Bangkok University missed the
chance to go second when they could only draw 0-0 with
Indonesia's Arema Malang.


Elsewhere, there was frustration for Australian sides with
Adelaide United pegged back to a 2-2 draw and Sydney FC's match
with Persik Kediri postponed due to a water-logged pitch.


Adelaide had looked on course for a second consecutive Champions
League win against Seongnam Chunma when Fernando and Bruce Djite
both scored soon after half-time.


But substitute Kim Dong-hun reduced the arrears almost
immediately before Mota teed the ball up and volleyed a
spectacular equaliser 15 minutes from time.


The result left both teams five adrift of runaway Group G leaders
Shandong.


Persik Kediri's match with Sydney will be played on Thursday
after heavy rains left Indonesia's Manahan Stadium pitch
unplayable. The kick-off time was yet to be decided.


Other matches were continuing throughout the region. The group
stage winds up on May 23, when the competition pauses for the
Asian Cup tournament before resuming in September.


The winners will take home 600,000 US dollars. Defending
champions Jeonbuk Motors have a bye to the knock-out phase.

