

AC Milan booked their place in the Champions League semi-finals
with a 2-0 win at Bayern Munich's Allianz Arena on Thursday night
to knock the German giants out of Europe.


Bayern's proud home record of 11 Champions League games without
defeat, held since November 2004, came to an abrupt end as they
lost the quarter-final 4-2 on aggregate.


After weathering some early pressure, the Italians came alive
midway through the first-half as two goals in less than five
minutes by Clarence Seedorf and Filippo Inzaghi booked Milan a
semi-final berth against Manchester United.


The Germans had the advantage from the first-leg after Belgian
defender Daniel Van Buyten's equaliser in the third minute of
stoppage time gave Bayern a 2-2 draw at the San Siro last week.


But they suffered a blow before kick-off when German
international Bastian Schweinsteiger pulled out with a knee
injury he suffered in last weekend's 2-1 win over Hanover, after
scoring the winning goal, and his influence was missed.


Bosnian international Hasan Salihamidzic came in at right-back
for injured Argentinian Martin Demichelis, while Owen Hargreaves
partnered Dutch hardman Mark van Bommel in midfield.


AC Milan were missing cup-tied Brazilian Ronaldo and Italian
striker Alberto Gilardino was suspended after picking up a yellow
card in the first leg as the Italians.


Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti played a 4-4-1-1 combination with
Kaka just behind lone striker Inzaghi and it proved to be a
winning formation.


Bayern had several early half-chances and Milan had to wait until
the 20th minute for their first real opportunity when Inzaghi
directed a weak header straight into the arms of Bayern captain
and goalkeeper Oliver Kahn.


But the guests drew first blood when Seedorf drove his shot hard
and low past the diving Kahn to give the visitors a 1-0 lead
after 27 minutes to silence the home fans.


And just five minutes later the German giants suffered a hammer
blow when Inzaghi was put into space past Bayern defender Lucio
and his powerful shot gave Kahn no chance on 31 minutes.


Lukas Podolski squandered a chance to pull a goal back when van
Bommel's cross fell at his feet in the six-yard box, but he
failed to connect and Dida scooped the ball out of danger as the
Italians went into the break 2-0 ahead.


Bayern came out firing after the interval and Salihamidzic picked
up a yellow- card for a heavy challenge just after the hour mark
as his side pushed forward.


The home side camped in the Italians half in the dying stages as
Podolski went close on numerous occasions and subsititute striker
Claudio Pizarro hit the side netting with five minutes left.


But it was too little, too late and Milan now face Manchester
United in the semi-final on 24/25 April for a place in the Athens
final up for grabs on May 23.

