

At least 2,000 Thais gathered in Bangkok Sunday to protest
against the junta on the eve of the six-month "anniversary" of
the coup, in the largest demonstration of its kind since the
military takeover.


Bangkok's deputy police commissioner Major General Phanu
Kerdlarphol said that 700 police officers stood guard at the
rally, which he said was attended by 2,000 demonstrators.
Organisers estimated a similar figure.


It was the second night of protest against the junta, which
seized power from twice-elected premier Thaksin Shinawatra on
September 19. Organisers said up to 2,000 people turned out to
voice their opposition in Bangkok on Saturday night.


Some 500 demonstrators initially met at about 4:00 pm (0900 GMT)
Sunday at Bangkok's Sanam Luang plaza. The numbers swelled after
sunset, with people milling around shouting: "Military, stay out
of politics."


After massing at the plaza, the protesters marched to the
downtown home of former prime minister Prem Tinsulanonda, a top
adviser to Thailand's revered king. Prem is believed to have
played a prominent role in the bloodless putsch.


Police blocked the road at an intersection about 200 metres
(yards) from his house near Sanam Luang, prompting the protesters
to sit down in the street.


"The coup is not legitimate. The military should give up power
without conditions," Suwit Lerttraimatee, one of the organisers,
told AFP, adding that he estimated the crowd at 6:00 pm to number
2,000.


Protests against the coup and the military-installed government
have generally been small, with the largest to date on December
10 -- Constitution Day -- when about 1,500 people marched through
Bangkok.


A similar protest in January attracted only 200 marchers.


The military, led by army chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin,
seized power when Thaksin was in New York, and swiftly installed
a civilian government led by Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont,
himself a former general.


The military banned public gatherings and imposed martial law,
but the restrictions were lifted in 41 of 76 Thai provinces,
including Bangkok, at the end of January.


The junta justified the coup by saying that Thaksin had abused
his position of power, but the military has come under criticism
over the slow pace of its corruption investigations.


The latest survey showed public support for Surayud's government
plunging from 71 percent in November to 48 percent last month.

