

The new Palestinian government holds its first cabinet meeting on
Sunday, vowing to confront rampant lawlessness and end a
crippling international aid freeze but facing a continued Israeli
boycott.


"The government platform includes some extremely problematic
elements which can't be acepted by Israel or the international
community, including the right to resist and the use of terror,"
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said at the weekly cabinet
meeting.


The unity cabinet, which unites long-time rivals Fatah and Hamas,
was sworn in to office on Saturday after winning overwhelming
approval from the Palestinian parliament.


Presenting the new government, prime minister Ismail Haniya of
Hamas defiantly proclaimed Palestinians' right to resist Israel,
contradicting a key demand of the international community.


The Quartet of Middle East peace mediators -- the United States,
European Union, United Nations and Russia -- froze aid to the
Palestinian Authority after Hamas came to power last year over
the Islamists' refusal to renounce violence, recognise Israel, or
abide by past peace accords.


"We expect the international community not to fall for the new
Palestinian unity government and to continue with the same line
it has taken all along, the way of isolating the government which
does not accept the Quartet principles," Olmert said.


In the West reaction have so far been more muted to the new
Palestinian government, which was formed months of deadly
factional fighting and amid a spiralling economic crisis.


Norway said it would recognise and cooperate with the new
government. That followed earlier indications by France and
Russia that they too would likely work with the new ruling
coalition.


In Berlin, the German presidency of the European Union said it
was prepared to cooperate with a government which adopted a
platform in line with internationally set conditions for Middle
East peace.


The United States has thus far withheld judgement.


Israel, fearing some Quartet members will now end the aid freeze
amid concerns for the Palestinian economy, has been quick to
insist that the new government fails to meet any of the Quartet
conditions.


Olmert vowed to maintain contacts with moderate Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas, but said that relationship would be
further strained by Abbas's agreement to share power with Hamas,
a group responsible for scores of suicide attacks against Israel.


"The new government and its platform limits our ability to have
dialogue with the head of the Palestinian Authority and also
limits the spectrum of topics we could discuss in the near
future," he said.


But peace with Israel is of secondary concern to Palestinian
ministers as they ready for their first cabinet meeting at 12:30
pm (1030 GMT) in Gaza City and Ramallah, where some ministers
will be participating via video link due to Israeli travel bans.


New ministers have said they will focus their initial efforts on
the total security breakdown in the streets of Gaza and an
international aid freeze that has crippled the economy and left
tens of thousands of Palestinians without pay cheques.


"The first mission for us... is to work immediately to provide
security and stability in the Palestinian territories so that the
citizen feels comfortable, safe and secure," new interior
minister Hani al-Qawasmeh told AFP.


Finance minister Salam Fayyad told journalists on Saturday that
the Palestinian government would not survive without
international aid.


"We do face a very serious financial problem," he said.


Haniya was both tough and conciliatory in his speech to
parliament, as he vowed to respect past peace accords, assured
Israel he would work to secure the release of captured soldier
Gilad Shalit and called for expanding a truce with Israel in the
Gaza Strip.


But he also insisted on the Palestinian right to "all forms of
resistance," rejecting a key Quartet condition and underscoring
schisms with Abbas, who renounced "all forms of violence."

