

Afghanistan's Taliban said Sunday it had handed an Italian
journalist, whom it captured two weeks ago and threatened to
kill, to tribal elders pending a final deal for his release.


A senior Afghan intelligence official said on condition of
anonymity that the government had agreed to free two Taliban in
exchange for correspondent Daniele Mastrogiacomo but the
negotiations were not over.


In Rome Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi said authorities had
been "working since dawn" to secure the release of Mastrogiacomo,
52, captured March 4 with two Afghan colleagues in the province
of Helmand, a Taliban stronghold.


The Taliban had set a deadline of Monday evening.


A Taliban spokesman, Yousuf Ahmadi, told AFP Mastrogiacomo and
his Afghan translator were handed to the elders in Helmand after
authorities agreed to free a one-time Taliban spokesman and an
information chief.


But the Taliban also wanted back a third man -- another former
spokesman, Mohammad Hanif, arrested in October in Afghanistan.


"If Hanif is not released, we'll take back the journalists...
Once Hanif is released, the elders can take the Italian anywhere
he wishes to go -- we'll let him go," he said.


The intelligence official confirmed to AFP that ex-Taliban
spokesman Latif Hakimi and information chief Ustad Yasar had been
moved from Kabul to the Helmand capital, Lashkar Gah, for a
likely exchange.


"Right now they're negotiating a mechanism for the exchange," he
said.


The Helmand security chief, Isau Khan, said the Italian was
expected to be freed in days.


"I'm aware that he was supposed to be freed within one or two
days. But I'm not aware at this point if he has been freed. The
negotiations have been very successful," he said.


Presidential spokesman Karim Rahimi would not confirm any
exchange of captives was planned but told AFP from Germany, where
he was with President Hamid Karzai: "The government will use any
possible means to secure his release."


The Italian prime minister spoke with Karzai Sunday about the
kidnapping, Italy's ANSA news agency reported.


"There is little that can be done today," Prodi told reporters
later. "We have been working since dawn, and we are continuing
now."


A top Taliban commander, Mullah Dadullah, had threatened to kill
the Italian unless demands were met, including the withdrawal of
Italian troops from Afghanistan and the release of certain
Taliban in custody.


The extremist movement, which was in government between 1996 and
2001, has killed scores of Afghan and foreign captives, sometimes
recording their execution for propaganda videos.


Prodi has already said the country's 2,000 soldiers will remain
with the NATO- led force in Afghanistan despite the threat.


A media report Friday cited a purported spokesman for Dadullah as
saying the driver -- one of the three men captured by the Taliban
-- was executed late Thursday after being found guilty of spying
for foreign forces.


Ahmadi would not confirm this to AFP but did not mention the
third Afghan Sunday.


Mastrogiacomo, who is employed by the left-leaning La Repubblica
newspaper and has reported from conflict zones around the world,
begged for efforts for his release in a recorded message obtained
by the independent Pajhwok Afghan News on Thursday.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days,"
Mastrogiacomo is heard saying.


Italian photojournalist Gabriele Torsello was kidnapped in
October in Helmand and released three weeks later, saying he had
not seen daylight throughout his ordeal.


His abductors said they were with the Taliban but Ahmadi said the
group was not involved.

