

Afghanistan's Taliban said Sunday they had handed an Italian
journalist captured two weeks ago to tribal elders after two of
their members were freed, but would take him back if a third was
not released.


The Italian and Afghan governments would not confirm that veteran
reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo was free, although an Afghan
provincial security chief said he knew the Italian was to be
freed after "very successful" negotiations.


Presidential spokesman Karim Rahimi would not confirm any
exchange of captives was planned, but told AFP: "The government
will use any possible means to secure his release."


A top Taliban commander had threatened to kill the Italian unless
demands were met, including the withdrawal of Italian troops from
Afghanistan and the release of certain Taliban in custody.


"We'll consider him free when he's safely in Italian hands," an
Italian foreign ministry spokesman in Rome said of the La
Repubblica correspondent who was captured in Helmand province on
March 4 with two Afghan colleagues.


The Italian ambassador in Kabul, Ettore Francesco Sequi, also
said he had no evidence of Mastrogiacomo's release. "As of now he
has not been released," the embassy said.


Helmand security chief Isau Khan told AFP: "I'm aware that he was
supposed to be freed within one or two days. But I'm not aware at
this point if he has been freed. The negotiations have been very
successful."


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP that Mastrogiacomo and
his Afghan translator were handed to elders in Helmand after the
government freed two members of the group, Latif Hakimi and Ustad
Yasar who were captured in 2005.


The Afghan interior ministry and intelligence agency could not
confirm there had been an exchange.


But the Taliban also wanted another man, spokesman Mohammad
Hanif, arrested in October last year, to be released, Ahmadi
said.


"Today, Hakimi and Yasar were released and we too handed over the
journalist and his Afghan friend to the tribal elders. If Hanif
is not released, we'll take back the journalists," Ahmadi said.


"Once Hanif is released, the elders can take the Italian anywhere
he wishes to go -- we'll let him go."


Hakimi and Hanif have been Taliban spokesmen while Yasar was
reportedly head of the group's "information commission."


Mastrogiacomo was captured with two Afghans -- a translator and a
driver.


A media report Friday cited a purported spokesman for Taliban
commander Mullah Dadullah as saying the driver was executed late
Thursday after being found guilty of spying for foreign forces.


Ahmadi would not confirm this to AFP but did not mention the
third Afghan Sunday.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema said Thursday his
government was not in direct negotiations over the release, but
there were "humanitarian sources which maintain the contacts."


Mastrogiacomo begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the independent Pajhwok Afghan News on
Thursday.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days,"
Mastrogiacomo is heard saying in the poor quality recording
forwarded to AFP.


The Taliban afterwards pushed back its deadline for its demands
to be met to Monday.


Italian photojournalist Gabriele Torsello was kidnapped in
October in Helmand and released three weeks later, saying he had
not seen daylight throughout his ordeal.

