

One month ahead of a crucial presidential vote, Nigerians are
worried over the prospect of electing an ailing candidate who may
be unable to perform his official duties.


Fears have risen over the health of Umaru Yar'Adua, the ruling
People's Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the April 21
election.


Early this month, Yar'Adua, 55, was flown to Germany for
treatment after he collapsed during an arduous countrywide
campaign tour.


Many Nigerians wonder why President Olusegun Obasanjo is bent on
imposing the little-known Yar'Adua on the party and the nation
when he knew that the politician had a kidney ailment.


Yar'Adua told journalists in Lagos on March 12 that he had
undergone kidney dialysis in January 2001 but has since been
cured of his ailment.


The governor of the northern Sharia Muslim State of Katsina
emerged as the PDP flagbearer last December, beating other high-
profile candidates in primaries widely believed to have been
tilted in his favour.


Even then there was media speculation that he might not be able
to withstand a gruelling campaign or perform effectively if
elected as head-of-state because of his health.


Last week he was even rumoured to have died in Germany. He came
back on Saturday to address a campaign rally in the southwestern
town of Ekiti, but another rally billed for nearby Akure the
following day had to be cancelled because he needed rest.


"President Obasanjo and the PDP should relieve Yar'Adua of a
burden he never sought and look for another standard-bearer,"
respected newspaper columnist Olatunji Dare said.


"If they will not, Yar'Adua should tell those who dragooned him
into this enervating race that he is not obliged to sacrifice
himself to gratify their fancies," he said.


Dare also questioned Obasanjo's motives. "Even with Yar'Adua
alive and apparently in good health, Obasanjo has to live with
the wicked calumny that he had foisted a gravely ill person on
the PDP."


Bayo Onanuga, editor of The News, an independent magazine, said
Nigeria may have to contend with another travelling president if
Yar'Adua is voted in.


"It's very unfair for Obasanjo to want to impose Yar'Adua on us
because the man is sick. The implication is that Yar'Adua will
always abandon state duties to attend to his ailment overseas,"
said Onanuga, a critic of the Nigerian leader's frequent foreign
trips since he took office in 1999.


Opposition politician and human rights lawyer Gani Fawehinmi
urged the government to make public Yar'Adua's actual state of
health to determine his elgibility for the vote.


"It is important that Nigerians don't elect someone who is sick
.. because the ailment will distract him from performing in
office," he said.


Dare said Yar'Adua's health is an issue only because he aspires
to lead Nigeria and dismissed the Katsina governor's recent show
of bravado over his health as "wildly implausible."


The PDP candidate, recently challenged critics to a game of
squash.


"If they can play 12 straight sets with me, they are welcome," he
said.


Obasanjo also defended his "political son", saying he had been
"miraculously healed" since 2001. He called those who doubt his
word people "who do not wish PDP and Nigeria well".


Before becoming the PDP candidate, Yar'Adua, a quiet and self-
effacing man who sometimes seems ill-at-ease at campaign rallies,
had virtually no public image.


He was best known as the younger brother of the late politician,
Shehu Musa Yar'Adua, a retired general who was Obasanjo's deputy
when the president was military ruler between 1976 and 1979.

