

The US commander in Iraq said Sunday that there were "encouraging
signs" that a sharp increase in American troops would help quell
violence in Iraq, according to a BBC interview.


US President George W. Bush had revealed in January that he was
sending 21,500 extra troops into Iraq in the coming months, while
the arrival of a further 2,400 was announced in March.


General David Petraeus told the BBC that sectarian attacks had
fallen in recent weeks, with two of the five extra US brigades
now on the ground in Iraq.


Despite the "encouraging signs," Petraeus cautioned that he did
not want to get "overly optimistic at all on the basis of several
weeks of a reduced sectarian murder rate," according to the BBC.


Petraeus was quoted as saying: "By early June, we should then
have everyone roughly in place -- and that will allow us to
establish the density in partnership with Iraqi security forces
that you need to really get a good grip on the security
situation."


Insurgent attacks killed six more US troops in Iraq on Sunday,
the military confirmed, as security forces braced for more
chemical attacks after dirty bombs left two policemen dead and
350 civilians sick.


Almost exactly four years after the invasion of Iraq, US
casualties are still mounting as US and Iraqi forces battle to
quell the insurgent and sectarian violence gripping the country.


Petraeus vowed that he would speak out if the current operation
in Iraq did not go according to plan.


"I have an obligation to the young men and women in uniform out
here, that if I think it's not going to happen, to tell them that
it's not going to happen, and (that) there needs to be a change,"
the BBC quoted him as saying.


The United States currently has about 142,000 troops in Iraq,
while the total number of coalition troops stands at about
155,000.


Meanwhile, the US ambassador to Britain, Robert Tuttle, told BBC
television that there was "some cautious optimism" over the
situation in Iraq.


He added: "We've seen some progress, it's a little early, but it
will really be in the late summer" that we will see the impact of
the arrival of new brigades of US soldiers.

