

As television sets grow to mammoth proportions and computers
gobble energy at work and at home, the consumer electronics
industry is slowly coming around to the idea of ecology to stay
competitive.


Executives at the world's biggest high-tech fair here said that
while they were not yet leaders in the fight against global
warming, they hoped that more efficient products would appeal to
cost- and environment-conscious consumers.


"Caring for the environment is our objective," the Advanced
Plasma Development Centre (APDC) alliance comprised of three
Japanese manufacturers of flat-screen televisions, Hitachi,
Panasonic and Pioneer, proclaimed.


At its CeBIT stand, two televisions are on display: on the left,
a plasma screen and on the right, a liquid crystal display (LCD),
each with a gauge of how much electricity it uses. The plasma
reads 171 watts versus 269 watts for the LCD.


"More and more consumers are asking about how much energy the
products consume, just like with refrigerators," Hitachi product
manager Jacob Teodorsson.


"The plasma set saves energy because it consumes less during
darker scenes," he said, explaining while the LCD screen's energy
consumption remains steady, the plasma set fluctuates "based on
the amount of light broadcast."


The APDC is working on new technologies that could cut the plasma
screen's electricity consumption by 75 percent.


Plasma screen manufacturers are appealing to consumers' guilty
consciences about global warning to gain an edge over LCD makers,
which have fared better in the rivalry between the two standards.


Meanwhile Japan's Sharp was showing of "the biggest LCD
television in the world" weighing in at 300 kilogrammes and
measuring 2.72 meters diagonally.


"It's not for homes -- it wouldn't even fit through the door,"
production manager Thies Radeloff said.


Radeloff admitted that the prototype consumed "a lot" of
electricity but he said that in most homes, the light bulbs use
more energy than the television.


Sharp says it is trying to reduce the amount of electricity used
with each new generation of products. Some bear the European
ecolabel -- a small flower indicating that a product respects the
environment.


But the majority of new television sets cannot be fully switched
off and thus remain on standby as the electricity bill climbs.


"If in Germany we turned off all our devices that are on stand-by
we could shut down two nuclear power plants," Environment
Minister Sigmar Gabriel often says.


Official statistics show that German households use 33 billion
euros (44 billion dollars) worth of electricity with devices on
stand-by.


Yet even many new products fail the energy efficiency test.


Due to its high-definition images, Sony's new PlayStation3
requires much more energy than its predecessor, while the new
features of Microsoft's new operating system Windows Vista
requires a more powerful computer to run it.


Electronics giant Fujitsu-Siemens says it is doing its part for
the environment by ensuring all its computers go into sleep mode
automatically after not being used for a few minutes.


As Europe's top computer maker, Fujitsu-Siemens has been selling
"green" products for a few years which have reduced amounts of
lead in some components. The company is also gradually cutting
the amount of other toxic substances inside its computers.


"The environment is a sales argument," Corinna Kammerer, a
product manager at Fujitsu-Siemens, said. But she noted that the
extra cost involved in building a more ecological computer has to
be compensated with cost-cutting elsewhere.


"It doesn't do any good to develop 100-percent ecological
products if nobody buys them," she said.

