

Political parties in Bangladesh will face tough new voting rules
in future polls such as a bar on candidates who have defaulted on
loan, utility or tax payments, an election official said Sunday.


Reforms to the country's voting system and candidate eligibility
rules are expected to be completed by July and will pave the way
for polls that were cancelled in January following violent
protests over vote rigging allegations, election commissioner
Sakhawat Hossain said.


"We hope these reforms will make sure that all future elections
reflect the true verdict of the people," he said.


He did not specify a date for when the next election would be
held.


He said the bar on defaulters and other reforms such as the
requirement to declare funding sources were part of the sweeping
changes that the country's military-backed interim government
promised after taking power following the declaration of a state
of emergency in January.


Hossain, a retired brigadier general, was one of three election
chiefs the interim government appointed as part of its pledge to
prepare the ground for credible polls.


The last elections, which had been scheduled for January 22, were
cancelled by President Iajuddin Ahmed following violent protests
over opposition allegations the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist
Party (BNP) had sought to rig the ballot.


Ahmed stepped down as the head of the previous caretaker
government and imposed the emergency.


The opposition Awami League had alleged that pro-BNP election
commission officials had drawn up a voter list with at least 14
million fake names.


A leading legal expert said the new reforms would strengthen
democracy in Bangladesh.


"These reforms are very much essential for Bangladesh democracy.
They will definitely plug the flaws that we have witnessed in our
past democratic experiences," retired supreme court Justice Golam
Rabbani said.


"Our democracy will be strengthened once we get rid of the
influence of the defaulters in our political system. We have
already seen how bad our democracy could be with these people
running the show," he added.


Many Bangladesh politicians are regularly accused of evading
taxes and defaulting on loans and utility bills worth millions of
dollars in a country ranked as one of the most corrupt in the
world by business watchdog Transparency International.


The government's anti-corruption commission last month released a
list of 50 allegedly corrupt politicians, bureaucrats and
businessmen and accused them of amassing millions of taka
(Bangladesh's currency) in unaccounted money.


At least 45 prominent figures, including the influential son of
outgoing prime minister Khaleda Zia, have been arrested or
detained.


Hossain also said that routinely flouted campaign finance laws
that limit spending to 500,000 taka (9,000 dollars) in a
parliamentary race would be updated and enforced.


"This time we will implement the laws so that bad money cannot
dominate the polls," Hossain said.

