

The deadly H5N1 bird flu virus is spreading among poultry farms
around northern Nigeria's largest city, Kano, despite control
measures, a senior veterinary official said on Sunday.


"The avian influenza virus is still spreading among poultry farms
and it has so far affected 33 farms in seven districts," Shehu
Bawa, head of Kano State's Committee on Avian Flu, told AFP.


More than 80,000 birds have been culled in Kano, Bawa added.


Further measures taken to check the outbreak include controls on
movement of poultry and people, disinfecting farm workers and
visitors, fencing off farms, and a ban on borrowing of farm
implements from them.


Nigeria, the continent's most populous nation with some 140
million people, early this year reported west Africa's first
human bird flu death.


A 22-year-old woman died in Lagos on January 17 weeks after
plucking and disembowelling a chicken.


Bird flu was first detected on a farm in Jaji town outside the
northern city of Kano in February last year from where it spread
to other parts of Nigeria.


Kano, northern Nigeria's most populous city, was worst affected
by the flu outbreak which ravaged 97 farms in the city resulting
in the death or culling of at least 300,000 birds, officials
said.


Three more northern states -- Katsina, Sokoto and Bauchi -- have
recorded a resurgence of bird flu since it resurfaced in Kano.


Bawa expressed the hope that the resurgence of the disease in
Kano would not be as bad as the first outbreak, in an apparent
attempt to douse public fears.


"I think the resurgence will not be as devastating as the initial
outbreak because while 33 farms have been infected in the last
four months, since December, the virus ravaged 97 farms within
the same period in the February 2006 outbreak," Bawa said.


"Improved bio-security measures by farmers is mainly responsible
for slow rate of spread of the avian influenza virus coupled with
the review of compensation to be paid to farmers who lost their
chickens from 250 naira {two dollars} to 500 naira {four
dollars}, based on the WHO recommendations", he said


According to Nigeria's Department of Veterinary Research, a total
of 945,862 birds were lost since the bird flu outbreak in
February last year out of which 602,160 were depopulated.

