

Suspected tribal insurgents blew up a natural gas pipeline and
train track on Sunday after firing rockets at security forces in
the southwestern Pakistan province of Baluchistan, officials
said.


A main gas pipeline feeding a filtration plant in Pirkoh district
was blown up with explosives early Sunday, forcing the closure of
the facility, gas company officials said.


The blast did not cause any casualties and a team had started
repairs at the state-owned gas field, they said.


Part of a main railway track was blown up with explosives in the
Spazend area, about 22 kilometres (13 miles) south of Quetta, but
there was no disruption to the train service, railway official
Mohammad Javed said.


Separately, a rocket fired by suspected insurgents at troops in
Quetta garrison missed its target and hit a civilian residential
building late Saturday, a local police official said.


The blast damaged the roof, but there were no casualties, he
said.


The rebels also fired five rockets at a paramilitary troop camp
in Kohlu district late Saturday but there were again no
casualties, a security official said.


One of the rockets hit an electricity transformer in Tratarni
village, which disrupted power supply to some villages, he added.


In neighbouring Mastoong district paramilitary troops defused a
rocket aimed at their camp after another rocket landed near the
camp late Saturday but caused no damage or casualties, the
official said.


In Sibbi district a home-made bomb exploded on Saturday outside
local government buildings damaging a boundary wall but caused no
casualties, local police officials said.


Impoverished Baluchistan has been wracked by an insurgency since
late 2004 when autonomy-seeking tribal rebels fired rockets at
the massive state-owned natural gas plant at Sui.


The insurgents want a greater share of profits from the region's
rich resources and oppose President Pervez Musharraf's plan to
build several military bases in the province, which borders
Afghanistan and Iran.

