

Japanese newcomer and gold medal hopeful Mao Asada denies feeling
any pressure ahead of the world figure skating championships here
this week.


"I see a lot of familiar faces among officials and journalists,"
the 16-year-old said on Sunday after the first official practice
session for the women's contest which starts on Friday.


"I can relax in doing my stuff as if it is not an international
event. It feels like just an event in Japan," she told reporters.


Defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the United States, 17, who
was on her way to Tokyo, said earlier that pressure would be
bigger on Japanese skaters although "there's obviously pressure
on me."


Like another favourite, Kim Yu-Na of South Korea, Asada could not
compete in the Olympics and the world championships last year
because she was too young to be eligible.


But both of them, former world junior champions, have already won
the Grand Prix final, a premier senior event with a lower age
limit. Asada upset then world number one Irina Slutskaya of
Russia to win the event last season, but was beaten into second
spot by Kim this season.


"I am surprised at the way I am improving myself," Asada said of
her trademark triple axel, a difficult 3.5-revolution jump
practised by a small number of female skaters.


She landed four triple axels with ease in her four-minute free-
skating practice before a cheering crowd of 4,000 at the Tokyo
Metropolitan Gymnasium.


Kim, the first South Korean figure skater of international note,
arrived here late on Sunday and said she was still struggling
with a back problem which has dogged her since she won the Grand
Prix final.


"I got better after undergoing treatment in South Korea. But I
felt something strange again in the final two days of training,"
Kim told Kyodo News.


Asada's teammate, Miki Ando, 19, said she was preparing to
attempt a quadruple jump in free skating on Saturday as the first
and only woman ever to have landed one in competition.


"I am working on it in my training and it is rotating alright,"
she told reporters after falling on two quad attempts and going
off balance when she landed on ice with another attempt.


She has not succeeded in a four-revolution jump since late 2003,
and fell on an attempt when she finished 15th at the Turin
Olympics last year.

