

President George W. Bush, already hard hit by the unpopular Iraq
war, has been hurt by a chain of scandals in recent weeks, and
more pain is yet to come as a clash over Iraq in Congress looms.


A purge of US attorneys and the outing of a covert CIA operative
for alleged political gain, revelations of dismal hospital care
for Iraq war veterans, and FBI breaches of US privacy laws, have
combined to abate the former juggernaut.


And more pain for the White House is yet to come.


As anti-war protests crop up to mark the upcoming fourth
anniversary of the US invasion of Iraq, Congress is considering a
military spending bill that would call for a US withdrawal from
Iraq by September 2008.


And pressure by lawmakers for US Attorney General Alberto
Gonzales to resign over the controversial firing of eight federal
prosecutors is increasing.


"In general terms, Bush has a limited amount of time left to do
things until his second term is over. And at this point, he has a
lot of holes to plug," David Corbin, a political expert at the
University of New Hampshire, told AFP.


"Everyone and everything seems to be going against him," he said,
signaling a difficult week ahead for Bush.


A poll published Saturday on magazine Newsweek's online edition
warning that Americans are becoming increasingly unnerved by the
scandals, and want blood.


Of those surveyed, 55 percent said the White House had done a
poor job of dealing with the Walter Reed Army Medical Center
debacle in which injured soldiers were treated in squalid
conditions.


Forty-four percent said more officials should be fired, even
though the controversy has already cost the general in charge and
secretary of the army Francis Harvey their jobs.


As well, 45 percent of Americans surveyed said they support the
view that the Bush administration has politicized too many areas
of government, particularly the US justice system.


Fueling that perception, Bush's top political aide Karl Rove was
implicated in the government attorney firings by e-mails released
Thursday by the Justice Department that show Rove active in
discussions about replacing prosecutors.


Some of the attorneys told Congress they were fired because they
resisted pressure from Republican lawmakers over sensitive cases,
not for "performance reasons," as the Justice Department first
claimed.


Meanwhile, glamorous former CIA spy Valerie Plame on Friday
accused the Bush administration of maliciously blowing her cover
to avenge her diplomat husband's criticism of the White House's
drive to war.


"Karl Rove clearly was involved in the leaking of my name, and he
still carries a security clearance to this day," Plame lamented.


The incident led to the appointment of a special prosecutor who
probed whether administration officials had broken the law by
knowingly outing a covert intelligence agent.


No charges were laid under that statute, but Vice President Dick
Cheney's former chief of staff I. Lewis 'Scooter' Libby was
convicted earlier this month of perjury and obstruction of
justice over the affair, and faces up to 25 years in prison. His
sentencing is set for June 5.


The mess on the White House doorstep comes amid heightened
partisan tensions as the 2008 presidential race gets under way.
Bush himself has become a pariah, not seen alongside any
Republican candidate on the campaign trail.


Bush's approval rating remains unchanged since his Republicans
lost control of Congress in November elections, at a dismal 30
percent, according to the Newsweek poll.


His handling of the war in Iraq has earned Bush the support of
only 27 percent of Americans surveyed, with a majority supporting
a Democrat proposal to withdraw US troops from Iraq by September
2008.


Democratic contender Senator Hilary Clinton, who venomously
criticized Bush for his handling of the Iraq war, even won
unexpected praise Friday from real estate mogul Donald Trump, a
friend of Republican frontrunner Rudolph Giuliani.


"Bush is probably the worst president in the history of the
United States," Trump told broadcaster CNN.


Still, Bush has managed win a small victory amid the carnage,
with the Senate narrowly rejecting a Democratic bill which set a
goal of a US troop withdrawal from Iraq by March 2008.


Pundits quipped also that the avalanche of bad news for Bush was
becoming confusing, with one scandal distracting attention from
another.


"Hurray! The US attorney purge scandal's eclipsing the Scooter
Libby debacle that's totally clouding the Walter Reed
disgrace...," Bush's aide Carl Rove tells the president in a
Washington Post editorial cartoon.

