

Falkirk midfielder Steven Thomson stunned Celtic by scoring the
winner in a shock 1-0 victory over the Scottish Premier League
leaders on Sunday.


Gordon Strachan's side could have moved within three points of
clinching the title with a victory, but Thomson's first half
header was enough to condemn Celtic to only their third league
defeat this season.


It was a miserable day at blustery Brockville park for the
Glasgow club. Craig Beattie missed an early penalty for the
visitors, who then finished with 10 men after defender Stephen
McManus and Falkirk's Carl Finnigan were sent off following a
first half flare-up.


After defeats against AC Milan and Rangers, Celtic have now lost
three consecutive matches for the first time in 13 years.


Strachan admitted Celtic have lost their touch in front of goal
and said: "We had 90 minutes of creating chances but couldn't
score and it's concerning.


"But you have problem times in a season in terms of results and
there is no problem in terms of the attitude of the players.


"I think we would all agree that we could have had four
penalties. The decisions are not great for us at the moment, but
we should still have taken our chances."


Falkirk had lost their last eight games but they showed no signs
of an inferiority complex in the early stages. A neat interchange
of passes ended with Russell Latapy sending Finnigan clear and
the striker's shot flashed just wide.


That narrow escape sparked Celtic into life and Japan midfielder
Shunsuke Nakamura responded with a deflected effort that skimmed
past a post.


Then, in the sixth minute, Strachan's side won a penalty when
referee John Underhill ruled that Falkirk defender Dean Holden
had impeded Beattie as the Celtic striker ran onto Paul Harltey's
pass.


Beattie picked himself up to take the spot-kick, but his tame
effort was easily stopped by Falkirk's on-loan Manchester City
goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel.


Falkirk got lucky again when Hartley's cross hit the far post
before rebounding back to Schmeichel.


Just as the leaders looked to be taking control, John Hughes's
side stole the lead in the 16th minute.


Finnigan whipped in a cross and Thomson found space to plant a
header past Artur Boruc for his first goal of the season.


Celtic were determined not to be affected by that setback and
went close twice in quick succession. First Holden blocked
Beattie's shot, then Lee Naylor drove just wide of the far post.


Falkirk refused to buckle though and tempers began to flare,
culminating in a 38th minute incident that saw both sides reduced
to 10 men.


Finnigan and McManus sparked a brawl when they clashed on the
edge of the Celtic penalty area. McManus had pushed away the
striker, while Finnigan responded by swinging an arm towards the
Celtic defender and the referee wasted little time in dismissing
both players.


As the remaining 20 players tried to calm down, Celtic wasted a
glorious chance to equalise when Kenny Miller had a clear sight
of goal, only to allow Darren Barr to make a saving tackle.


Celtic claimed another penalty when Nakamura looked to have been
shoved by Patrick Cregg, but Underhill waved away their appeals.


The Parkhead outfit dominated possession after the interval but
struggled to break down Falkirk's resilient defence.


The closest they came was a Beattie shot from a tight angle that
deflected into the side-netting off Kenny Milne.

