

Finland's Kimi Raikkonen gave Ferrari early season ascendancy
with a stroll around Albert Park to win his first Australian
Grand Prix in the season-opener here Sunday.


The deadpan Flying Finn had few worries in his first race for
Ferrari as he dictated the 58-lap race off the pole to hold off
world champion Fernando Alonso by a comfortable seven seconds,
with Alonso's rookie McLaren teammate Lewis Hamilton finishing an
encouraging third.


It was the 27-year-old Finn's first Australian triumph after
three podium finishes with his previous McLaren team in 2002-03
and last year.


But despite Ferrari's dominance, resurgent McLaren took an early
advantage in the constructors' title with 14 points to Ferrari's
13 after the second Ferrari driver, Felipe Massa, fought his way
from the eighth row on the grid to finish sixth.


"It's always nice to win the first race straight away, I have
never done that before," said Raikkonen, who was brought into
Ferrari this year from McLaren to replace retired seven-times
world champion Michael Schumacher.


"I've had good races here before but I've never been able to win
and with the new team it's an ideal way of starting the season.


"The car was perfect all day and it was just a matter of bringing
it home."


Unflappable Raikkonen's only irritant was a malfunctioning radio
which forced him to keep in contact with the team via pit boards.


"The car is very strong and the team is making my life very good
and easy. I'm enjoying it and hopefully we can keep it up."


It was obvious from the start that Raikkonen had the fastest car
here this weekend, building up a 15-second lead before the first
of his two pit stops on the 19th lap, regaining the race lead
four laps later and holding a massive 19-second lead by his last
stop on lap 42.


Raikkonen's fastest lap of 1:25.235 came on the lap before his
second pit stop and he was able to ease down over the final 12
laps to greet the chequered flag.


Asked about Ferrari's standing after the opening race in the
17-race season, Raikkonen said: "It's too early to say and we
need to wait for a couple of races to see where we really are.


"We're in a good position right now and we just have to keep
working hard and keep improving and try to win as many races as
we can."


Alonso got away slowly off the outside of the front row and was
beaten to the first right-hander by Raikkonen, BMW-Sauber's Nick
Heidfeld and his rookie teammate Hamilton.


He briefly grabbed the lead on laps 43 and 44 after Raikkonen's
second stop before he pitted on the 45th lap to hand the lead
back to the Finn.


"We have to be pleased with the final result," Alonso said.
"Ferrari were a little bit too quick for us today so we have to
take the maximum points out from here, and second place is a good
place to start the season.


"We showed a good potential in the team and we're looking forward
to the next one in Malaysia.


"It wasn't a very good start for me and I saw Nick Heidfeld
coming from the outside so I was more concentrated on him than
the corner itself.


"I realised later that I was fourth, unfortunately, and from
there I didn't think I had the possibility to push in the race.


"I was up and down all through the race and I was a little lucky
to overtake Lewis in the second pit stop."


Hamilton, the 22-year-old rookie, was ecstatic with a podium
finish in his first F1 drive, making it the best finish by an
Englishman in his debut race since 1966.


"To lead in my first Grand Prix was a fantastic feeling, it was
extremely tough to have the two-time world champion (Alonso)
behind you -- it's not easy, especially in your first race,"
Hamilton said.


"It was all a new experience for me and I thoroughly enjoyed it."

