

Another member of Zimbabwe's opposition has been prevented from
leaving the country and suffered serious injuries after being
beaten up at Harare International Airport, officials said Sunday.


Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the opposition Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC), was attacked by suspected state security
agents, his MDC colleague William Bango told AFP.


He was on his way to attend an Africa Caribbean Pacific (ACP) -
European Union (EU) meeting in Belgium.


"He was badly beaten this morning whilst he was on his way to the
airport by security agents," said Bango, a spokesman for MDC
leader Morgan Tsvangirai.


"Chamisa was due to be attending an EU-ACP meeting in Brussels.
The security agents have taken his passport, laptop and his
luggage. One of his eyes has been badly injured.


"It's really bad. His head has been severely injured".


Elphus Mukonoweshuro, secretary for foreign affairs within the
MDC, confirmed the incident.


"Chamisa has suffered serious head injuries after being attacked
by security the agents in the morning," he said.


The beating comes after it was announced that Arthur Mutambara,
leader of the breakaway faction of the MDC, would again be
charged with inciting public violence.


Mutambara was re-arrested Saturday at Harare International
Airport while attempting to travel to South Africa, where his
family is based.


"He (Mutambara) is being charged with inciting public violence,"
Harrison Nkomo, his lawyer told AFP Sunday.


"These are the same charges which he was charged with last week,
which the high court ruled against. We are now seeking for his
immediate release from the police cells as we have written a
letter to the police and the attorney general's office."


Chamisa and Mutambara and Morgan Tsvangirai were among 48
opposition activists who were beaten by police after being
arrested last Sunday, when police prevented a mass prayer
meeting.


Police shot dead an MDC activist during last Sunday's action.


On Saturday, two other activists, Grace Kwinje and Sekai Holland
-- who were seeking medical treatment in South Africa --  were
also stopped from leaving the country.

