

Iraq's new judiciary, four years on from the US-led invasion, is
dismantling piece by piece the remnants of the ruthless regime
enforced by Saddam Hussein over a quarter of a century.


The executed president's inner circle of family members and many
of his cronies -- mostly Sunni Arabs from the Tikrit region of
northern Iraq -- have been hunted down and are being sent to the
gallows one by one.


An appeals court on Thursday upheld a death sentence on former
vice president Taha Yassin Ramadan, like Saddam convicted for
crimes against humanity and who is now likely to be hanged within
the next two weeks.


Even ordinary Iraqis who despised Saddam were surprised by the
sudden December 30 hanging of the man who ruled Iraq with an iron
fist -- although thousands took to the streets to noisily
celebrate his downfall.


Film footage of Saddam being taunted then executed was circulated
on the Internet, to the delight of many Shiite Iraqis who
suffered under his regime, but was widely seen internationally as
a public relations blunder.


The masked executioners and their sectarian chants were seen as
undermining the legitimacy of the process -- but this did not
unnerve the Iraqi government.


Calling Saddam's execution a "gift to Iraq", Bassem Ridha,
advisor to Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said Iraq was determined
to hunt other followers of Saddam.


"Definitely this was historic for us. Nobody believed Saddam
would be executed. Now that it is done, it has given us a boost,
courage despite the mistakes we made," he told AFP.


Barzan Ibrahim Hassan al-Tikriti, a half-brother and former chief
of the dreaded Mukhabarat intelligence service, followed Saddam
to the gallows on January 15. His head was ripped from his body
by the rope.


Uday and Qusay, Saddam's two sons who were pillars of the regime,
were killed in a fierce gunbattle with US troops backed by air
power in the northern city of Mosul in July 2003.


All four have been buried in their home village of Awjah near
Tikrit, along with Awad Ahmed al-Bandar, the executed chief judge
of Saddam's disbanded Revolutionary Court.


Among the defendants in the Kurdish genocide trial is Ali Hassan
al-Majid, also known as "Chemical Ali" and a cousin of Saddam's
who served as his enforcer against Iraq's now dominant Shiites
and Kurds.


A defiant Majid has been appearing in court with a copy of the
Koran holy book in one hand, like Saddam had carried almost up to
the gallows, and sits in the same front row seat that had been
used by Iraq's fallen leader.


Only fugitive Izzat Ibrahim al-Duri, who has a 10-million-dollar
bounty on his head, has escaped capture among those closest to
Saddam's seat of power, amid frequent unconfirmed reports of his
death.


He was Saddam's number two in the decision-making Revolutionary
Command Council, having stood by his side ever since the 1968
coup that brought their Baath party to power.


It was in 1979 that Saddam, who would have turned 70 next April
28, took over as president.


Former deputy prime minister Tareq Aziz, seen as his master's
voice who represented the acceptable face of Saddam's Iraq on the
international scene, appeared in court earlier this month to heap
praise on the executed dictator.


"I had the honour to work with the former regime and with the
hero Saddam Hussein," Aziz said from the witness stand in the
Anfal genocide trial. "He is the hero behind the unity of Iraq
and its sovereignty."


Aziz, who surrendered to US troops in Iraq in April 2003 since
when he has been held near Baghdad international airport but
without being formally charged, denied there had been any mass
killings under Saddam.


The wife, Sajida Khairallah Tulfah Hussein, and eldest daughter,
Raghad, among the women and children in Saddam's family who fled
abroad before the US occupation, remain among those on a US
wanted list.


Iraq's Shiite led government is determined to continue chasing
Saddam's remaining aides.

