

The Pakistan cricket team's dismal performance and ouster from
the World Cup at the hands of Ireland has shocked the nation and
drawn criticism at home.


Ireland clinched a sensational three-wicket victory over Pakistan
to send the former champions crashing out of the World Cup at
Sabina Park, Jamaica, on Saturday.


Pakistan Cricket Board chief Nasim Ashraf will likely be the
first head to roll when he faces a senate standing committee next
week.


"We will ask for his (Ashraf's) resignation in the meeting which
is due to take place before March 28," Senator Mohammad Enver
Baig, a member of the senate standing committee on culture,
sports, youth affairs and tourism told AFP.


"You lost miserably to a country like Ireland. There is nothing
to compensate and the chairman must resign and go back to the
United States," Baig said.


"The way the team has lost is the most disgraceful performance
since the World Cup started. The entire nation is shocked."


Baig said Ashraf had no experience to head the Board and his "one
man show" type of management had resulted in the "shameful
defeat."


"He is a crony of (President) Pervez Musharraf and the way he
(Musharraf) is running the country, the cricket board is also
being run in same manner. It is a one-man rule everywhere," Baig
said.


Former cricketing great, paceman Sarfraz Nawaz, said the shock
was "unbearable" for him.


"I am speaking with deep pain and this shock is becoming
unbearable for me," Nawaz said.


"The captain, coach and the entire team should be held
accountable," he said.


Nawaz demanded that those responsible for defeat must be "fired".


He said that during the match with Ireland "it seemed that the
umpires also wanted that Pakistan should win, but the body
language of the team reflected that they wanted to lose."


In the central Pakistani city of Multan -- skipper Inzamam-ul-
Haq's home town -- angry youths held a protest rally, chanted
slogans against the Pakistan squad and demanded that police
arrest them.


"Death to Bob Woolmer (the coach), death to Inzamam, death to
Nasim Ashraf -- police should arrest them", the mob shouted.


The Irish victory handed Pakistan their second straight defeat in
the competition, following their 54-run loss to hosts West Indies
last Tuesday.


The win also provisionally puts Ireland in the lead of Group D,
with three points -- one more than West Indies and two ahead of
Zimbabwe (both have a match in hand) -- leaving Pakistan at the
bottom of the table with no points.

