

James Hook was hailed on Sunday as the "real deal" who will
become the backbone of the Wales side and a catalyst for a
successful Rugby World Cup campaign after his sterling
performance against England.


The 21-year-old amassed a record-equalling 22 points in his
team's 27-18 win in its final Six Nations game against the old
enemy at the Millennium Stadium on Saturday.


In only his ninth game of senior rugby, and second at Test level,
in the number 10 shirt, he outshone his equally young counterpart
Toby Flood and marshalled his side superbly to a win more
comfortable than the scoreline reflected.


He showed poise with his place kicking, landing four penalties
out of five and one conversion out of two, managed a tricky drop-
goal after a terrible pass from Dwayne Peel, and was also on hand
to score the first try of the match, after charging down a rushed
Flood clearance and gathering the bounce to dot down.


His field kicking was also excellent and he was a constant threat
with ball in hand in open play.


Barry John, the Wales and British Lion legend lauded Hook, only
playing fly-half after captain Stephen Jones was ruled out with a
wrist injury.


"And so a star is born," John said in his Wales on Sunday column.


"I realise the dangers of putting talented young players on a
pedestal but I feel ice-man James Hook has the temperament,
composure and rugby brain to cope with his new found status.


"Hook was Wales' brilliant orchestrator against England in
Cardiff and as the wonderful inspiration for a nation to finish
an uttlerly disappointing Six Nations on a high."


Hook, who was playing semi-professional rugby with Neath this
time last year and now plays for Ospreys, was a "threat with ball
in hand, his decision-making is top-notch and even though he made
the odd mistake, they didn't bother him - or me", said John.


Former Wales captain and No 8 Eddie Butler, writing in The
Observer, said Hook's promotion from inside centre to fly-half at
the expense of the "pale and hesitant" Jones had been a blessing.


"Hook stepped into his boots and reinvented the position," Butler
said.


He "played with immense authority, scoring by all the known means
and mustering a personal tally of 22 points, equalling the record
set by Neil Jenkins in another upset game, back in 1999 at
Wembley."


Legendary Wales and British Lion winger Ieuan Evans said Hook had
a revitalise pack to thank.


"Hook was deservedly named man-of-the-match after a dream
performance but much credit must go to the pack, who set the
platform for victory."


Evans, writing in The Sunday Telegraph, said consistency in the
run-up to the Rugby World Cup was key to any success in rugby
union's showcase tournament.


Wales coach Gareth Jenkins, however, would not be rushed into
naming his number one fly-half before the May tour to Australia
and Rugby World Cup that kicks off in September, especially as he
has named Stephen Jones as captain through to that tournament.


"A time will come when I will have to pick my first team and that
will be at the World Cup," he said.


"But James Hook has certainly done his chances no harm at all
against England.


"He proved how talented he is by switching from centre to
outside-half with relative ease and contributing to the team
effort."

