

Zimbabwe's security forces on Sunday stopped an opposition
activist from leaving the country at Harare airport and beat him
up badly in an ongoing crackdown on dissent, his colleagues
reported.


The attack on Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the Movement for
Democratic Change (MDC), was the fourth time a member of the
opposition was prevented from travelling abroad at the weekend.


"He was badly beaten this morning whilst he was on his way to the
airport by security agents," said William Bango, a spokesman for
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai.


Chamisa had been due to fly out of Harare International Airport
to Belgium for a meeting amid mounting criticism across Africa
and abroad of action by President Robert Mugabe's government
against opposition activists.


Police also descended on Chamisa's constituency, where there was
a tense atmosphere Sunday, and ordered that shops and churches
there be closed, said Bango.


"Chamisa was going to Brussels where he would have interacted
with powerful decision makers in the EU and would have met
powerful media barons and would have made a very strong case
against the goings on in Zimbabwe," University of Zimbabwe
political analyst Eldred Masunungure told AFP.


Arthur Mutambara, leader of a breakaway faction of the MDC, was
rearrested on Saturday at Harare International Airport and
charged with inciting public violence, his lawyer Harrison Nkomo
told AFP on Sunday.


Also barred from leaving were activists Grace Kwinje and Sekai
Holland, who wanted to go to neighbouring South Africa for
medical attention after being beaten by security forces on March
11.


Their lawyer, Aleck Muchadehama, told AFP security agents
confiscated their passports Saturday and demanded clearance from
the health ministry as the two were being airlifted from Harare.


Rashweat Mukundu, a media committee member of the Save Zimbabwe
coalition, said: "This is an attempt in stopping the world from
seeing what exactly the brutality is that was subjected on the
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) and other civic activists."


"This is a violation of freedom of movement rights, violation of
freedom of association. This also marks a turning point in the
political situation in Zimbabwe," Mukundu told AFP. "The
government is now behaving like a rebel group of some sort."


His comments echoed those of the main opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai in a telephone interview Sunday with the BBC.


"Things are bad but I think this crisis has reached a tipping
point and we could be seeing the beginning of the end of this
dictatorship," Tsvangirai said, adding that the attack on Chamisa
was "a pattern which is increasing in intensity and I think that
this is a very serious situation."


On Saturday, the African Union issued its strongest rebuke yet
when it called on Zimbabwe to respect human rights and democratic
principles during the political crisis engulfing the country.


African Union commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare said Mugabe's
government must have "respect for human rights and democratic
principles in Zimbabwe," the pan- African body said in a
statement.


For Mukundu, this was not enough.


"The AU has always been reactive and waited for the last minute
to resolve serious issues," he said.


"To me the Zimbabwean situation has reached a stage where the
weight of African Union, the weight of Southern African
Development Community, the weight of the whole world must be
brought to bear on the Zimbabwean government so that it can make
concrete reforms."


Mugabe has brushed aside the international condemnation first
sparked by images of a badly beaten Tsvangirai. Western
governments could "go hang", he said, accusing the opposition of
waging a violent campaign against him.


Elphus Mukonoweshuro, a lecturer in political science at the
University of Zimbabwe, said moral statements and condemnation
would not succeed.


"If the AU is to maintain its credibility as a continental body
it must take steps to ensure that the crisis in Zimbabwe is
resolved," he said.

