

Hosts West Indies could become the first side to confirm a place
in the Super Eights at the World Cup, when they face Zimbabwe at
Sabina Park here on Monday.


West Indies had the perfect start to the first World Cup ever
staged on Caribbean soil, when they prevailed over Pakistan by 54
runs in the opening match of the competition last Tuesday.


Events over the last few days, however, will make West Indies
aware that they cannot take the Zimbabweans too lightly, or else
they may be embarrassed in much the same way Ireland shamed
Pakistan on Saturday.


"Everyone is trying to make a name for themselves so we cannot
underestimate anyone," opener and former captain Shivnarine
Chanderpaul said.


"We have to go out and play it hard and take it to the end. We've
been doing a lot of work, we're well prepared. We don't know what
is going to happen in that game, but hopefully we can go out and
get the win."


The Irish victory on Saturday handed Pakistan their second
straight defeat in the competition, following their downfall to
West Indies.


Ireland's win also provisionally puts them in the lead of Group D
with three points - one more than West Indies and two ahead of
Zimbabwe (both with a match in hand) - leaving Pakistan at the
bottom of the table with no points.


Pakistan contest their final match on Wednesday against Zimbabwe
hoping to finish on a winning note, and the Irish and West Indies
close off the group matches on Friday.


"I haven't seen much of the other matches due to practice and
other team matters," Chanderpaul said.


"You get a chance to watch bits and pieces and there are some
good players. We've been hearing a lot of things about some of
the guys from the other teams, such as the opener from Ireland
(Jeremy Bray) and the areas we need to bowl, and things such as
that.


"We don't know the other players too well, so we have to look at
the cricket, even though we do not always have much time to do
that, but we are planning and preparing for every game."


The Sabina Park pitch has been the topic of much consideration,
following Saturday's match, but Chanderpaul believes batsmen have
to be more patient to score runs.


"It's not like the Sabina Park pitches in the past," he said.


"It's not a bad surface. It's a decent track, but you need to
work hard on it.


"It's a bit slow, and the ball stands up a little more. It does a
bit but because it doesn't have the pace on it, you can't really
go through with the shot, and you have to play a bit more
patiently."


To this end, Chanderpaul feels it will be a little difficult for
him to play the kind of dashing innings that he has recently.


"Sabina is not one of those pitches you can go out and start
flinging your bat from ball one," he said.


"Maybe you could go out, and fling from ball one, and get away
with it, but it is one of the pitches you need to work on. It's
going to take some hard work, and if you get in, you need to stay
in, and see the innings all the way through."


Zimbabwe will have to defy history to overcome West Indies.


They have never beaten the hosts in a World Cup match in four
attempts, and they have also lost the two one-dayers they have
contested against them at Sabina Park.


They should have won their match against Ireland comfortably, but
almost lost the match, and had to settle for a tie which may
prompt them to make some changes to their line-up.

