

England all-rounder Andrew Flintoff was dropped for the World Cup
Group C match against Canada here Sunday.


Flintoff, who was not at the ground, was omitted after reports
he'd been one of a number of players who'd stayed out drinking
until the early hours of Saturday morning following England's
six-wicket defeat by New Zealand in their opening game here
Friday.


His place in the side was taken by Essex all-rounder Ravi Bopara,
making his World Cup debut.


In a statement, the England and Wales Cricket Board said: "Andrew
Flintoff has been left out of the team for a breach of team
discipline. A further statement will be issued in due course."


England captain Michael Vaughan said of Flintoff's situation:
"We'll talk about it later today with the team management group.


"He (Flintoff) is not here today, he's back at the team hotel,"
Vaughan also told Sky Sports.


Former, England skipper Nasser Hussain, who captained Flintoff,
said the Lancashire star had been given "three or four warnings
about his drinking" prior to being dropped for the Canada match.


Hussain, England captain from 1999 to 2003 and now a Sky
commentator, said: "There is a history to this story. It is not
the first time. In Australia he had three or four warnings about
his drinking.


"The management felt enough is enough. At some stage you have to
have some strong management, even with your best cricketer.


"Well done England for finally for having some strong
management."


Flintoff, 29, captained England to victory in their triangular
series final win against hosts Australia last month after Vaughan
played just three matches in a tournament also featuring New
Zealand because of a hamstring problem.


The News of the World, Britain's biggest-selling Sunday
newspaper, reported that Flintoff had to be rescued at 4am local
time after capsizing a pedalo following the loss to New Zealand.


Among the other players reported to have been fined for staying
out for a late night drinking session at the Rumours Nightclub
near England's team hotel were James Anderson, Ian Bell, Jon
Lewis and Liam Plunkett.

