

Indian Maoist rebels, suspected of killing 55 police in an attack
last week, on Sunday called for a strike across four Indian
states to protest the police shooting 14 villagers.


"The people must come to terms with the fact that governments in
these states are agents of imperialist forces, and should rise to
fight their anti-people agenda," the rebels said in a statement
issued in the eastern state of Orissa.


The statement asked the public to support a strike on Tuesday in
Orissa, as well as in the eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand and
West Bengal.


In Nandigram village in West Bengal on Wednesday, police shot
dead 14 protesters who were trying to prevent the compulsory
purchase of land to build an industrial park.


On Thursday, Maoist rebels killed 55 police in an attack on a
jungle security post in eastern Chhattisgarh state, one of their
worst ever attacks in their four-decades-old insurgency.


Maoist rebels are active in half of India's 29 states,
particularly in many of the regions that have seen the worst
violence over land acquisition for industry under India's plan to
set up Special Economic Zones (SEZs).


Orissa has been a hub of agitation against the zones -- privately
run enclaves with world-class infrastructure and tax breaks to
lure investment.


The state has allotted huge tracts to the steel industry in
recent years, and political activists in the state claim as many
as four million locals face displacement by foreign and domestic
industries as a result.


A protest against the construction of a Tata steel complex in
Orissa's remote Kalinga Nagar area led to the shooting deaths of
11 villagers last January.


"From Kalinga Nagar in Orissa to Nandigram in West Bengal the
story is the same -- the governments acting in tandem with
capitalist forces to build mega- industries by forcefully
evicting the farmers," the Maoist statement said.


Conflict analyst Ajai Sahni, who has studied the insurgency for a
decade, believes Maoist militancy is on the rise in India and the
unhappiness over land acquisition is providing rebels with a
"very, very fertile recruiting ground."


Police in West Bengal said Maoist militants are increasingly
active in the region.


The latest violence in West Bengal has renewed debate in India
over whether farmland should be used for industry in India, where
some two-thirds of the billion-plus population make a living off
agriculture.

