

Inter Milan moved a step closer to retaining their Serie A title
after they won 2-1 at struggling Ascoli and second-placed Roma
were held to a goalless draw at Fiorentina on Sunday.


The results saw Inter stretch their lead at the top of the table
to 18 points with just 10 games left to play.


Ascoli held the champions for 65 minutes before Zlatan
Ibrahimovic scored twice - both of them set up by second-half
substitute Adriano - to take his tally for the season to 15
goals.


The deadlock was broken when Adriano crossed from the right and
Ibrahimovic buried a right-footed volley into the bottom corner.


Ibrahimovic doubled Inter's lead in the 73rd minute with a low,
left-footed shot after Adriano's robust run.


Massimo Bonanni scored a late consolation goal for Ascoli,
slotting home a penalty in the third of four minutes added on
after Walter Samuel had fouled Sasa Bjelanovic.


Inter have 76 points from their 28 matches played, followed by
Roma on 58 points.


Roma's trip to Florence was short of goals, but there was no lack
of action.


Fiorentina defender Dario Dainelli was sent off in the 32nd
minute for two yellow cards before Roma winger Mancini had a goal
disallowed.


Despite playing with 10 men, Fiorentina came closest to sneaking
the points when Manuel Pasqual's curling free-kick hit the post
in the second half.


Lazio, who have 46 points, can jump above Palermo into third
place if they chalk up their sixth straight win at home to Empoli
in the day's late match.


Palermo drew 1-1 at Sampdoria on Saturday which left them on 47
points .


AC Milan remain firmly in the hunt for a top-four finish and a
Champions League place next season after edging Atalanta 1-0 at
the San Siro.


Massimo Ambrosini, captaining the Milan side in the absence of
the injured Paolo Maldini, scored the only goal with a close
range header just before half time.


Chievo, Reggina and Parma all boosted their hopes of avoiding the
drop to Serie B with priceless wins.


Chievo defeated fellow strugglers Cagliari 2-0, Reggina thrashed
Catania 4-1 and Claudio Ranieri celebrated his first victory
since taking over as Parma coach in a 1-0 win against Siena.


Success for the relegation-threatened trio was bad news for
Messina, the Sicilian side losing 3-0 at home to Torino and
falling into the drop zone.


Antonio Di Natale scored twice as Udinese ended a run of six
matches without a win by thumping Livorno 4-0.

