

More than 100 Islamist and independent members of the Egyptian
parliament on Sunday boycotted a session debating constitutional
amendments that they say are aimed at stifling them.


As the chamber discussed the changes to 34 articles of the
constitution proposed by President Hosni Mubarak in December, 102
deputies paraded outside the domed parliament building wearing
black sashes bearing the slogan "No overturning the
constitution."


"The constitutional amendments show a unilateral vision that only
represents the ruling party and its hangers-on, and not the
Egyptian people," said Mohammed Saad al-Katatni, head of the
88-member Muslim Brotherhood grouping in parliament.


The protest, which involved nearly a quarter of the 454-member
body, included most of the opposition and independent MPs who
maintain that the amendments are being railroaded through
parliament with no debate.


Parliament, which is overwhelmingly dominated by the ruling
National Democratic Party, is expected to give its final approval
to the amendments on Tuesday or Wednesday, paving the way for a
popular referendum to be held in the first week of April.


Critics of the amendments say they will enshrine sweeping
security powers in the constitution, sideline the powerful Muslim
Brotherhood, and ensure the succession of Mubarak's son Gamal.


A group of prominent politicians and intellectuals published a
joint statement on Sunday arguing that the constitutional changes
had no other goal than to serve the interests of Mubarak's
regime.


"The amendments are aimed at facilitating the transmission of
power in Egypt and turning the regime into a hereditary and
dynastic monarchy," the statement said.


They "are aimed at consolidating laws that are not in the
nation's best interest and enshrining the monopoly of power and
wealth," it added. "They only serve the interests of those who
proposed them and helped pass them."


Among the signatories to the statement were former prime minister
Aziz Sedqi, the head of the Kefaya protest movement Abdel Wahab
al-Messiri, Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Issam al-Aryan and
celebrated radical poet Ahmed Fuad Negm.


On Saturday, human rights body Amnesty International called on
parliament to reject the proposed constitutional changes,
describing them as the most serious undermining of the people's
rights in 26 years.

