

Washington Sunday said it was disappointed with Palestinian Prime
Minister Ismail Haniya's insistence on his new government's right
to all forms of resistance, which rejects a key international
condition for acceptance.


A spokeswoman with the US State Department said the statement by
the head of the new Palestinian government flouted the principles
espoused by the Quartet mediating Israeli-Palestinian peace
efforts -- the United States, European Union, United Nations and
Russia.


"The speech was disappointing and inconsistent with the Quartet
principles, as well as a missed opportunity to affirm the
national unity government's adherence to the foundational
principles for peace," spokeswoman Nancy Bell said Sunday, as the
new Palestinian cabinet -- uniting long-time rivals Fatah and
Hamas -- met for the first time in Gaza City and by video link in
Ramallah.


Prime Minister Haniya presented his government's program to
parliament on Saturday, including a vow to secure the release of
captured Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit and to expand a truce in
the Gaza Strip.


However, Haniya -- a member of Hamas -- also proclaimed
Palestinians' right to all forms of resistance, an assertion Bell
called "disturbing."


"The national unity government's reference to right of resistance
is disturbing and contradicts directly the quartet principle of
renunciation of violence," she said.


"We will continue to work with President (Mahmoud) Abbas who was
directly elected by the Palestinian people on a platform of
peace, and who has reaffirmed his continuing conmmitment to these
principles and to partnership in pursuit of peace," Bell said.


She reiterated Washington's view that "any Palestinian government
must renounce violence, recognize Israel and respect previous
agreements and obligations between the parties."


Bell added: "These are foundational principles upon which any
Palestinian state must be based. A Palestinian state will not be
born from terror."


Washington urged the new government to commence its rule by
"freeing (kidnapped Israel solider) Corporal Shalit, disbanding
illegal security units and preventing acts of terror."

