

World champion Fernando Alonso is looking forward to keen
competition within the McLaren team from rookie driver Lewis
Hamilton to cut into Ferrari's early season Formula One
dominance.


Kimi Raikkonen overpowered the field in the season-opening
Australian Grand Prix to relegate the two-time drivers' champion
Alonso to second on the podium and give Ferrari early dominance
in the 17-race season.


Alonso has moved to McLaren after four years with Renault, the
last two as world champion, but he could do nothing as Raikkonen
careered around the Albert Park street circuit for a commanding
seven-second victory.


But Hamilton was most impressive in his first F1 drive, coming
from the second row on the grid to beat Alonso to the first
corner in the race and keep in front of him for 42 of the 58
laps.


Alonso only got on top on Hamilton's second pit stop on lap 43,
and trailed in after Raikkonen to beat the rookie for second
place by 18 seconds at the chequered flag.


Alonso conceded that Ferrari has the edge in early-season speed,
but McLaren still came away with more team points (14-13), with
Raikkonen's Brazilian teammate Felipe Massa finishing sixth.


"We're here to win the world championship, we seemed to be quite
comparative in qualifying and then in the race we weren't as
quick as Ferrari," Alonso acknowledged.


"It's an area we are trying to improve and everybody is trying to
improve on Ferrari.


"Two or three teams can fight with Ferrari in qualifying, but in
the race no one."


Alonso recalled his keen competition in the past with former
Renault teammates Jarno Trulli and Giancarlo Fisichella in
welcoming the challenge within McLaren from 22-year-old Hamilton.


"I had difficult moments with Trulli in 2004. He won the Monaco
race and he was getting more podiums than me, and Fisichella also
started the seasons better than me.


"He won in Australia in 2005 and last year he won in Malaysia as
well, so I have had similar with what I had today (with Hamilton)
and hopefully we can keep this level of competition inside the
team all through the season."


Alonso, described as an "invaluable asset" by team principal Ron
Dennis, is confident the McLaren cars will become quicker
throughout the year.


"We will improve the performance of the car, especially in the
long run, and I believe the car will very soon become quicker and
I'm sure there is more in my hands in terms of driving.


"We keep learning with these new Bridgestone tyres, so it was
difficult to manage the tyres in the race, and I hope I will
improve day by day.


"It's always better to win, but it was not possible today, we
don't yet have the pace to be close to Ferrari and until we
arrive at that point, second place like today is the best result
possible."

