

A Cambodian court has charged ousted royalist leader Prince
Norodom Ranariddh with adultery over his affair with a classical
dancer, a court official said Sunday.


Ranariddh -- who is currently in Europe and was on Tuesday
sentenced in absentia to 18 months in jail for fraud over a land
deal -- could face up to one year in prison if found guilty under
Cambodia's new monogamy laws.


The charge follows a complaint filed in December by his estranged
wife, Princess Norodom Marie Ranariddh.


Sok Kalyan, deputy prosecutor at Phnom Penh Municipal Court, said
the charge was issued in January, but was only made public on
Friday, the first day of campaigning for upcoming local
administrative elections.


"It is true that I charged Prince Norodom Ranariddh with
adultery, and I think it is fair because the accused had a
relationship with a new partner," said Sok Kalyan.


He said the court would invite both Princess Marie and Ranariddh
to court once the investigation was complete. No date for the
hearing has yet been set.


The prince, 63, has publicly acknowledged his relationship with a
classical dancer, with whom he has a three-year-old son.


Cambodia in September passed a monogamy law which punishes
unfaithful spouses and bans polygamy and incest. Perpetrators
face between a month and a year in prison, plus a fine of up to
205 dollars.


Ranariddh's defence lawyer Liv Sovanna labelled the charge "a
great injustice", but admitted that he had little hope that they
could win the case, accusing the courts of bias.


Ranariddh, who was sacked as leader of the Funcinpec party in
October, was on Tuesday sentenced to 18 months in jail and
ordered to pay 150,000 dollars to Funcinpec over the illegal sale
of his former political party's headquarters.


The charges against the prince are at the heart of a battle with
his former political allies for royalist support ahead of local
elections next month and national polls in 2008, which are likely
to see royalist influence in the government plummet.


Ouk Socheat, the prince's information adviser, said Ranariddh was
currently in Belgium.


He did not say when Ranariddh would return to Cambodia, but told
AFP that members of the prince's newly-established Norodom
Ranariddh Party would issue a petition requesting a royal pardon
from King Norodom Sihamoni.

