

Zimbabwe's crackdown on dissent continued Sunday as an opposition
activist was stopped from leaving the country at Harare
International Airport and badly beaten, his colleagues reported.


The attack on Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the opposition
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) comes amid mounting
criticism on the continent and abroad of the government action
against opposition activists.


"He was badly beaten this morning whilst he was on his way to the
airport by security agents," said William Bango, a spokesman for
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai. Chamisa had been due to fly out to
Belgium for a meeting.


He became the third opposition politician to be blocked from
leaving the country this weekend.


On Saturday, state security agents arrested Arthur Mutambara,
leader of an MDC breakaway faction, when he tried to leave to
South Africa.


Also barred from leaving the country were activists Grace Kwinje
and Sekai Holland, who wanted to leave for South Africa for
medical attention, after being beaten by security forces last
Sunday.


And Arthur Mutambara, leader of the breakaway faction of the MDC,
was rearrested on Saturday at Harare International Airport and
charged with inciting public violence, his lawyer Harrison Nkomo
told AFP Sunday.


Rashweat Mukundu, a media committee member of the Save Zimbabwe
coalition, told AFP: "This is an attempt in stopping the world
from seeing what exactly the brutality is that was subjected on
the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) and other civic
activists."


He added: "This is a violation of freedom of movement rights,
violation of freedom of association. This also marks a turning
point in the political situation in Zimbabwe.


"The government is now behaving like a rebel group of some sort."


His comments echoed those of the main opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai in a telephone interview with the BBC Sunday.


"Things are bad but I think this crisis has reached a tipping
point and we could be seeing the beginning of the end of this
dictatorship," said Tsvangirai.


On Saturday, the African Union made its strongest comments yet
when it called on Zimbabwe to respect human rights and democratic
principles during the political crisis engulfing the country.


African Union commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare said President
Robert Mugabe's government must have "respect for human rights
and democratic principles in Zimbabwe," the pan-African body said
in a statement.


Despite the AU's comments, Mukundu said this was not enough.


"The AU has always been reactive and waited for the last minute
to resolve serious issues," Mukundu said.


"To me the Zimbabwean situation has reached a stage where the
weight of African Union, the weight of Southern African
Development Community, the weight of the whole world must be
brought to bear on the Zimbabwean government so that it can make
concrete reforms."


Mugabe has brushed aside international condemnation sparked by
the images of a badly-beaten Tsvangirai. Western governments
could "go hang," he said, accusing the opposition of waging a
violent campaign against him.


Elphus Mukonoweshuro, a lecturer in political science at the
University of Zimbabwe said moral statements and condemnation
would not succeed.


"If the AU is to maintain its credibility as a continental body
it must take steps to ensure that the crisis in Zimbabwe is
resolved," he said.


"Over the past seven years, the AU was conspicuous its silence.
We want to see them put together practical steps that go a long
way in enabling the resolution of the crisis rather than wait for
the crisis to degenerate to bloody levels."

