

At least 500 Thais gathered in Bangkok for the second night
running Sunday to protest against the army-installed government
on the eve of the six-month anniversary of the coup here.


The demonstrators met at about 4:00 pm (0900 GMT) at Bangkok's
Sanam Luang plaza to voice their opposition to the junta, which
seized power from twice-elected premier Thaksin Shinawatra on
September 19.


Men and women, mostly middle-aged, milled around shouting
"Military, stay out of politics".


The event was more subdued than Saturday's protest, which saw
numbers swell into the thousands in the evening.


"Around two thousand people came for the protest last night but
we expect less than last night will show up today," said Sombat
Boonngamaong, one of the organisers, adding some people would
instead attend a city fete.


An AFP photographer at the scene estimated about 500 people had
gathered for the protest Sunday night, but one organiser, Suwit
Lerttraimatee, said up to 2,000 people had again turned out for
the demonstration.


"The coup is not legitimate. The military should give up power
without conditions," Suwit told AFP.


After massing at the plaza, the protesters marched to the home of
former prime minister Prem Tinsulanonda, a top adviser to
Thailand's revered king. Prem is believed to have played a
prominent role in the bloodless putsch.


The military, led by army chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin,
seized power when Thaksin was in New York, and swiftly installed
a civilian government led by Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont,
himself a former general.


The military banned public gatherings and imposed martial law,
but the restrictions were lifted in 41 of 76 Thai provinces,
including Bangkok, at the end of January.


The junta justified the coup by saying that Thaksin abused his
position of power, but the military has come under criticism over
the slow pace of its corruption investigations.


The latest survey showed public support for Surayud's government
plunging from 71 percent in November to 48 percent last month.

