

England made light of Andrew Flintoff's absence by scoring 279
for six in their World Cup Group C match against Canada at
Beausejour Cricket Ground here Sunday.


Irish-born left-handed opener Ed Joyce top-scored with 66 while
Paul Collingwood finished on 62 not out off 48 balls with one six
and four fours.


Former Guyana left-armer spinner Sunil Dhaniram, now a fork-lift
truck driver, took three wickets for seven runs in 11 balls as
England declined from 153 for one to 161 for four.


However, a fifth wicket stand of 81 between Collingwood and Ravi
Bopara, who made 29 on his World Cup debut and in only his second
match at this level after replacing Flintoff, revived England's
innings.


Paul Nixon added late impetus with a dynamic 23 not out off just
eight balls. The wicket-keeper who, also hit four fours, ended
the innings by lofting former West Indies fast bowler Anderson
Cummins for a straight six.


Dhaniram, 38, removed Ian Bell (28), Joyce and dangerman Kevin
Pietersen (five) on his way to figures of three for 41 from his
full 10 overs.


Flintoff was dropped for a "breach of team discipline", the all-
rounder one of several players fined for staying out until the
early hours of the morning after England's six-wicket defeat by
New Zealand in their World Cup opener here Friday.


England, who lost the toss, saw openers Joyce and captain Michael
Vaughan score briskly against a new-ball attack of Cummins and
left-armer Umar Bhatti.


Minnows Canada, thrashed by seven wickets in their World Cup
opener against Kenya last week, then saw skipper John Davison
bring himself and fellow off- spinner Abdool Samad into the
attack.


Irish-born left-hander Joyce, on 30, gave a difficult chance
against Samad when he drove to cover where the ball just reached
Desmond Chumney who failed to hold on with England 84 without
loss.


The Middlesex batsman then went down the pitch to spinner George
Codrington's third ball and lofted it for six.


But three balls after England's first century opening stand in 27
one-day internationals, Vaughan was out for 45 when a slashed
square-cut off Samad was caught by Davison at backward point to
leave England 101 for one off 20 overs.


Vaughan faced 64 balls with seven fours.


His innings was his highest score in a one-dayer since he made an
unbeaten 59 in England's nine-wicket win against Australia at his
Headingley home ground in July 2005.


Joyce, on 46, had another scare when an edged drive off Davison
brushed past Ashish Bagai, before completing his third fifty at
this level.


But at the other end England lost Bell (28) when a top-edged
sweep off Dhaniram was caught by Codrington, England 153 for two
in the 34th over.


And in his next over Dhanirman struck twice in six balls as
England, just as they'd done against New Zealand, lost a clutch
of wickets in quick succession.


First Joyce was bowled reverse-sweeping to end a 103-ball innings
before Pietersen chipped a return catch to the gleeful bowler.

