

China captain Zheng Zhi boosted Charlton's hopes of avoiding
relegation as his influential display set up a 2-0 win over
Newcastle on Sunday.


Zheng scored his first goal for Charlton on his full debut and
then won a late penalty that was converted by Jerome Thomas as
Alan Pardew's side moved to within four points of safety.


Pardew has inspired an impressive revival from the south London
club, who looked dead and buried when he took over at Christmas,
and they are now unbeaten in their last three matches.


Fourth-bottom Sheffield United are firmly in their sights and
this victory means Wigan and Manchester City will also be feeling
under pressure as the battle for Premiership survival hots up.


Pardew told Sky Sports News: "We were disciplined and in the
second half we got more pace and energy about us.


"I didn't feel nerves in the team. We know we have to win games
so there's no tension in us. I think it's going to start to mount
on others though.


"We're dragging people in and we've got another home game to come
against Wigan and if we can maybe get three points it's going to
make four or five teams very nervous."


While Newcastle are free of any relegation worries, this defeat
at The Valley completed a miserable four days for Glenn Roeder's
side, who slumped out of the UEFA Cup on Thursday.


Zheng had made just three substitute appearances since joining on
loan from Shandong Luneng and the midfielder seized his chance to
show what he can do in impressive fashion.


Roeder's team should have been in front in the sixth minute as
Antoine Sibierski ran onto Damien Duff's pass, but the French
midfielder's poor control allowed Souleymane Diarwara to make a
saving tackle.


But Zheng quickly made an impact as his skill won a free-kick
that Talal El Karkouri blasted inches over the bar.


Darren Bent had shaken off a knee injury to start for Charlton
but the forward, who has been named in England's squad for their
forthcoming Euro 2008 qualifiers, was starved of service in a
lacklustre first half.


Yet Charlton would have gone into the break ahead if Nolberto
Solano hadn't alertly headed off the line after Marcus Bent's
cross looped over Shay Given.


The Addicks started the second half on top and took the lead in
the 53rd minute after Amady Faye fouled James Milner.


Bent took the free-kick and curled his shot over the wall and
onto bar. The ball bounced down towards Zheng and, with Given
unable to recover, he was able to head into the empty net.


Pardew's team didn't sit back on their lead and they briefly
thought they had scored a second moments later.


Dennis Rommedahl tapped-in in Marcus Bent's pass, but the Danish
winger's effort was ruled out for offside.


Newcastle's season was effectively ended after their midweek UEFA
Cup capitulation against AZ Alkmaar and they showed litte stomach
for a scrap against a Charlton side fighting for their lives.


It took a superb stop from Given to keep out Jerome Thomas's
corner and Bent just failed to get a touch.


Newcastle had no answer to Bent's movement and, when he headed
Thomas's cross against a post, Zheng should have done better than
lift his shot over the bar.


With 20 minutes to go, Bent missed an opportunity to seal the
points as he sent a shot from Rommedahl's cross into the side-
netting.


But Newcastle were going through the motions and Thomas sealed a
crucial win from the spot in the 88th minute after Solano fouled
Zheng.

