

Captain Inzamam-ul-Haq and coach Bob Woolmer have refused to
speculate about their future, after Pakistan crashed out of the
World Cup following a stunning defeat to Ireland.


Pakistan conceded their second straight defeat in the
competition, after they lost by 54 runs in the World Cup opener
against hosts West Indies last Tuesday.


"I have not had time to think about my future," said Inzamam
after his team's shock three-wicket defeat.


"I have other things on my mind right now. There are bound to be
changes, but I do not know what they might be."


Pakistan's defeat has drawn fiery criticism at home, with reports
suggesting that Pakistan Cricket Board chief Nasim Ashraf will
soon be out of a job.


Inzamam, playing in his fifth World Cup and a member of the side
that won the 1992 title, admitted his side is likely to receive a
lukewarm welcome on their return home.


"As far as a reception at home is concerned, I don't think we
will have a welcome reception," he said.


Inzamam also praised Ireland for playing so competitively and
silencing the critics that felt ICC Associate sides had no place
in the World Cup.


"You are always under a lot of pressure when playing these
countries because they really have nothing to lose," he said.


"But I feel these countries should be coming out and playing in
order to spread cricket all over the world."


Woolmer indicated his side's performance ranked pretty highly as
one of the worse days of his life as a coach.


"I think the worse was at Edgbaston in 1999 (when he was South
Africa's coach in a losing semi-final to Australia), but I think
it is important that I remember however, that this is a game, and
in a game, things like this happen," he said.


"As for my future as a coach, this is what I do best, and I am
not going to, therefore, throw away coaching.


"Doing it internationally, it takes a toll on you - the endless
travelling and the non-stop living out of hotels."


Woolmer had no excuses to make about his side's performance in
the competition.


"I think we have a good team in this World Cup, but we have not
played as well as we should have, or could have.


"Quite frankly, a lot of credit must be given to Ireland, and a
lot of credit should be given to the ICC's High Performance
Programme, and we deserve to take stick because we have not
performed.


"This is a game of cricket, and everyone should try to remember
this. We are sorry that we have performed in the way that we
have. We didn't mean to do it, but all credit to Ireland and good
luck to them."


Woolmer admitted the Sabina Park pitch was difficult, but Ireland
bowled well, and Pakistan batted poorly.


"I thought it was a pitch that evened out the sides, and winning
the toss was an important factor," he said after seeing his team
dismissed for a meagre 132.


"I still think we should have scored between 190 and 200 runs
against Ireland's attack, we worked really hard in the field -
and nobody can say anything differently - and had hoped to bowl
them out for 90, but Niall O'Brien (72) batted well for Ireland
and they reached the target."


Pakistan face Zimbabwe on Wednesday in their final group match
before a long plane ride home.

