

Chapchai Nirat completed a dominant start-to-finish victory at
the TCL Classic on Sunday, becoming the third Thai to win a
tournament co-sanctioned by the Asian Tour and European Tour.


The 23-year-old, who led the one-million-dollar event from the
opening day after smashing the course record with a 61, signed
off with a one-under-par 71 at Yalong Bay Golf Club and finished
three shots clear of Argentina's Rafael Echenique, who closed
with a 68.


Chapchai totalled 22-under-par 266 for the week and later
dedicated his career breakthrough triumph in Asia to his parents,
who have backed his efforts diligently since he turned
professional at the tender age of 15.


Prayad Marksaeng made it a memorable day for Thailand by
finishing third after a 67 which consisted of seven birdies,
while Liang Wen-chong, winner of the Clariden Leu Singapore
Masters last week, was China's top performer in equal sixth,
seven shots behind the winner after a 70.


Chapchai's classy victory was the third straight win by an Asian
Tour member in a co-sanctioned event, following recent triumphs
by South Africa's Anton Haig and China's Liang in the Johnnie
Walker Classic and Clariden Leu Singapore Masters over the past
two weeks.


"There was pressure today. I was nervous but I talked to my
caddie (Manop Santhiap) and we stuck to our game plan just as we
have done so for the past three days," said Chapchai, who joins
compatriots Thongchai Jaidee and Thaworn Wiratchant as winners of
a co-sanctioned tournament.


"This is my first win in a big event and I want to give it to my
parents."


The big-hitting Chapchai led by five strokes going into the final
round and was never really threatened by the chasing pack.
Echenique, a graduate from the European Tour's Challenge Tour,
was Chapchai's chief rival, closing to within three strokes after
turning in 33.


The Argentinean could have piled more pressure on the young Thai
going down the stretch, but agonisingly missed birdie chances
from inside eight feet on the 13th and 14th holes.


Chapchai steered a steady ship all day, holing a two-putt birdie
on the par five ninth hole before giving the shot back at the
next. However, a superb 20-foot birdie conversion at the par
three 240-yard 15th hole proved to be decisive, giving him a
comfortable four-shot cushion playing the last three holes, which
he parred comfortably.


The burly Thai will take up membership with the European Tour,
where he will be exempted until the end of 2009.

