

Afghanistan's Taliban said Sunday they had handed an Italian
journalist captured two weeks ago to tribal elders after two
Taliban members were freed, but would take him back if a third
was not released.


The Italian news agency ANSA reported that veteran correspondent
Daniele Mastrogiacomo, 52, had been freed but his employer, Rome-
based La Repubblica newspaper, said it did not have confirmation.


Italian and Afghan officials also could not confirm the report.
"We'll consider him free when he's safely in Italian hands," an
Italian foreign ministry spokesman in Rome said.


The ambassador in Kabul, Ettore Francesco Sequi, also said he had
no evidence of his release.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi told AFP that Mastrogiacomo and
his Afghan translator were handed to elders in Helmand province
after the government freed two members of the group, Latif Hakimi
and Ustad Yasar.


But the Taliban also wanted another man, spokesman Mohammad
Hanif, arrested in October, to be released.


"Today, Hakimi and Yasar were released and we too handed over the
journalist and his Afghan friend to the tribal elders," Ahmadi
said.


"If Hanif is not released, we'll take back the journalists,"
Ahmadi said.


"Once Hanif is released, the elders can take the Italian anywhere
he wishes to go -- we'll let him go."


The interior ministry and an intelligence agency spokesman said
Sunday they were not aware of any agreement to free any Taliban
in custody.


The Italian embassy in Kabul also was unaware of any such
agreement.


Mastrogiacomo was captured in Helmand on March 4 with two
Afghans, a translator and a driver.


A media report Friday cited a purported spokesman for Taliban
commander Mullah Dadullah as saying one of the Afghans, a driver,
was executed late Thursday after being found guilty of spying for
foreign forces.


Ahmadi would not confirm this to AFP but did not mention the
third Afghan Sunday.


Ahmadi told AFP on Friday the deadline for the Taliban's demands
to be met for the freeing of the hostages had been pushed backed
to Monday evening.


The demands were the release of certain Taliban members and the
withdrawal of Italian troops. Italy has about 2,000 troops
serving with the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force
battling Taliban and other militants.

