

Austria's Nicole Hosp secured the women's overall World Cup crown
after winning the final race of the season, a giant slalom, on
Sunday.


The 23-year-old, one of a handful of exciting up and coming all-
rounders who will be aiming to peak at the Vancouver Olympics in
2010, beat compatriot Marlies Schild to alpine skiing's
prestigious crown.


Earlier Schild's partner, Austrian Benjamin Raich, won the men's
concluding slalom but ultimately failed to defend his World Cup
overall crown, although he did win the slalom title.


Norwegian Aksel Lund Svindal finished in 15th place to secure his
first major crystal globe by a slim margin of 13 World Cup
points.


In the women's title race Schild had been engaged in a late-
season duel with Austrian veteran Renate Goetschl, however Hosp
launched her own bid for the coveted trophy with some solid
skiing displays in the final weeks.


"When I set off I didn't know what positions the others were in,
I didn't want to calculate it," said Hosp.


"I was really nervous because it was the first time I found
myself in a position to win the big globe (for overall World Cup
winner), but also in a position to lose everything."


In the past month and 11 races which followed the world
championships she claimed precious World Cup points from three
victories and six podium places, finishing outside each race's
top ten only twice.


Hosp, who won the giant slalom gold at the world championships in
Are, Sweden last month, was winning her fourth race of the season
on Sunday to finish top of the World Cup standings with a points
total of 1572s.


Schild could only finish sixth in the giant slalom meaning she
finished on a total of 1482.


American Julia Mancuso finished on a total of 1356.


Over with the men Svindal was celebrating his crystal globe.


"After my giant slalom victory on Friday my coaches told me:
'you're a tonne lighter'," said Svindal.


"Today, at the start, I can tell you that tonne was back. I had a
little bit of luck, it was 50-50."


Raich was gracious in defeat.


"After the second leg I knew that Svindal had won the crystal
globe. But I stayed focussed on my goal: to win the race and also
the specialised Cup (for the overaal slalom winner)," he said.

