

US Secretary of Defense Robert Gates said Sunday it was too soon
to know whether the recent "surge" of thousands of additional US
troops in Iraq is quelling rampant sectarian violence.


"I think that the way I would characterize it is, so far so
good," said Gates, adding however that "it's very early" to make
a more definitive assessment.


"General (David) Petraeus, the commander out there, has said that
it will probably be summer before we know whether we're being
successful or not," the defense secretary told CBS television's
"Face the Nation" program.


Gates added that he is also generally happy with how Iraqi forces
are performing since the United States began deploying over
25,000 more US troops in Iraq.


In a new strategy declared by President George W. Bush in
January, the United States began boosting troop numbers to
restore security in violence-wracked Baghdad and Al-Anbar
province.


"I would say that the Iraqis are meeting the commitments that
they have made to us, that they have made the appointments, the
troops that they have promised are showing up," Gates said.


"We're basically buying them time," Gates said.


"That's the whole purpose of this strategy. They are going to
have to step up to the plate, and we can help them by giving them
the time to do that, and to make their military forces able to
carry the burden by themselves," the defense secretary said.


In a separate television interview, White House national security
adviser Stephen Hadley said the Iraqi government is "beginning to
perform" and condemned congressional efforts to set a deadline
for a US troop pullout.


"We need to get into a position where the Iraqis can take
responsibility for security successfully," Hadley told ABC
television Sunday.


"If we do a premature withdrawal, then what we have is a
situation where it the Iraqi forces cannot handle the situation,
which is the case now, we have Iraq as a safe haven for
terrorists, who will destabilize their neighbors and attack us."


"The Iraqis are beginning to perform," he added, noting successes
in setting a Baghdad security plan and a key law governing the
country's oil resources.


"If we succeed we've got an Iraq that is an ally in the war on
terror," he said of the US surge strategy.


Hadley reiterated that Bush will veto any bill from Congress
setting a deadline for the US withdrawal. Last week the Senate
defeated one bill backed by opposition Demcorats setting a target
pullout date.


But a House of Representatives committee passed its own version
of a pullout plan, attached to supplementary budget legislation
to fund the war.


"The problem is arbitrary timelines," said Hadley. "That is
mandating failure."

