

To add insult to the injury of being the first side to exit the
2007 Cricket World Cup 2007, Pakistan were fined for maintaining
a slow over-rate during their stunning three-wicket loss to
Ireland on Saturday at Sabina Park.


ICC match referee Chris Broad imposed the fines after Inzamam-ul-
Haq's side was ruled to be four overs short of its target at the
end of the match when time allowances were taken into
consideration.


"With the shortfall being more than two overs, Inzamam, as
captain, was automatically charged with a Level two Code of
Conduct breach, clause 2.11," an ICC release said.


Inzamam pleaded not guilty to that charge, but Broad found him
guilty in a hearing that took place after the match concluded.


"Inzamam was fined 50 per cent of his match fee for the breach -
the minimum amount allowable for a Level 2 offence - as well as a
further 40 per cent of his match fee for the shortfall."


The release noted that the latter fine was added because the
captain is automatically fined 10 per cent of his match fee for
every over his side fails to bowl in the time allocated.


The other members of the Pakistan side were each fined five per
cent of their match fees for every over and so are 20 per cent
out of pocket following the match.


The hearing was attended by Inzamam, Pakistan team manager Talat
Ali, and the four umpires on duty for the match, on-field
officials Brian Jerling and Billy Bowden, TV replay umpire Simon
Taufel, and reserve official Ian Gould.


Ireland gave their compatriots a St. Patrick's Day to remember,
when they completed a sensational victory under the Duckworth-
Lewis Method to upset Pakistan and dash the dreams of the 1992
World Cup champions.


Chasing a revised target of 128 from 47 overs in gloomy
conditions, Ireland held their nerve to hit the jackpot with 32
balls to spare, when captain Trent Johnson - fittingly - smashed
Azhar Mahmood over long-on for six.


The Irish victory handed Pakistan their second straight defeat in
the competition, following their 54-run loss to hosts West Indies
in the World Cup opener last Tuesday at the same venue.

