

Aston Villa limped to a dour 0-0 stalemate with Liverpool on
Sunday that took Martin O'Neill's run to just two victories in 19
matches, a sequence that leaves his team only seven points clear
of the Premiership's relegation zone.


Villa manager O'Neill has never suffered a more miserable
sequence of results in management and is now facing the grim
prospect of the words 'relegation battle' entering the vocabulary
of his American owner Randy Lerner.


Liverpool must surely be focusing on the Champions' League after
failing to inspire in an instantly forgettable encounter at Villa
Park, but the problems are far more serious, and continuing to
pile up, for their opponents.


After such a bright start to O'Neill's reign at Villa Park, the
feelgood factor has long since evaporated and after Charlton's
victory earlier on Sunday, he is now bracing himself for an
excruciating end to the campaign.


Fortune is also eluding the Ulsterman currently, with Villa's
best chance of securing three vital points denied by referee Lee
Mason after Steve Finnan clearly pushed Stilian Petrov inside the
area.


With second place in the Premiership almost certainly out of
reach, Liverpool's focus for the remainder of the season is the
Champions' League and that vital encounter with PSV Eindhoven to
come next month.


Their minds certainly looked to be elsewhere at Villa Park for
most of the contest as they struggled to break down opponents for
whom the end of the season cannot come quickly enough.


O'Neill's side were third in mid-November but were in free-fall
until mid- January when two victories stemmed the tide and this
was another turgid first half display to add to Villa's season of
troubles. Few chances were created by either side, with Gabriel
Agbonlahor coming closest with two efforts blocked by Jamie
Carragher and Daniel Agger.


Five minutes before half-time, John Carew should have given Villa
the lead when Ashley Young found him in the Liverpool penalty
area but he was unable to direct his shot on target.


O'Neill, a serial touchline prowler, was fidgeting with fury in
injury-time after Mahon failed to award his team a penalty kick
for a clear push on Petrov and it was not until the 58th minute
that the manager saw his side carve out another opportunity with
Swedish international defender Olof Mellberg tamely heading
Young's free-kick straight at the Liverpool goalkeeper Jose
Reina.


There was little to provide O'Neill with optimism, with his eye
on the remainder of the campaign, with substitute Patrik Berger
flashing a shot horribly wide into the stands as the tension
among the home supporters became tangible.


At the other end, O'Neill had to rely on his Danish goalkeeper
Thomas Sorensen to secure even the solitary point and avoid a
potentially disastrous defeat as he made a superb stop to keep
out a header from veteran Liverpool striker Robbie Fowler in the
closing minutes.

