

Andrew Flintoff was stripped of the England vice-captaincy after
being dropped for the World Cup match against Canada here Sunday
because of his off-field behaviour.


All-rounder Flintoff, who was not at the Beausejour ground for
the Group C game, was omitted after reports he'd been one of a
number of players who'd stayed out drinking until the early hours
of Saturday morning following England's six- wicket defeat by New
Zealand in their opening game here Friday.


However, he will be available for England's match against Kenya
on Saturday.


"It has been decided that Andrew Flintoff will not be considered
for the England captaincy should Michael Vaughan be injured at
any stage during the tournament," said an England and Wales
Cricket Board (ECB) statement.


ECB chief executive David Collier said: "The conduct of the
players who have been disciplined was unacceptable and falls
below the high standards of behaviour required of England
cricketers."


Flintoff, whose place Sunday was taken by Ravi Bopara, was one of
six England players who were fined Saturday by coach Duncan
Fletcher for a breach of team discipline on Friday night.


The others were James Anderson, Ian Bell, Jon Lewis, Paul Nixon
and Liam Plunkett.


Fletcher said Flintoff had been warned before about his conduct
after similiar incidents.


"Andrew Flintoff has been given warnings about his conduct and
disciplined for previous incidents of this nature," Fletcher
explained.


"In light of this and due to the serious nature of the incident
which he was involved in at the hotel on Friday night, we have
decided to take further disciplinary action against him.


"Andrew has been made fully aware of the team management's
concerns and the fact that the ECB considers this type of
behaviour to be totally unacceptable.


"He will remain with the World Cup squad and be available for
selection for our next match against Kenya," Fletcher added.


"All players involved wish to express their sincere regret for
the embarrassment caused to their team mates, the England
supporters and the ECB."


The News of the World, Britain's biggest-selling Sunday
newspaper, reported that Flintoff had to be rescued at 4am local
time after capsizing a pedalo following the loss to New Zealand.


Former, England skipper Nasser Hussain, who captained Flintoff,
said the Lancashire star had been given "three or four warnings
about his drinking" prior to being dropped for the Canada match.


Hussain, England captain from 1999 to 2003 and now a Sky
commentator, said of Flintoff's conduct in St Lucia: "This is not
the way to behave as an England cricketer."


But Ian Botham, the former England all-rounder and a man Flintoff
is often compared to as a cricketer, insisted there had been an
over-reaction.


Botham said no-one had complained about Flintoff's behaviour
when, the day after England had won an Ashes series against
Australia for the first time in 19 years in 2005, he was seen to
be hung over when the team enjoyed a victory parade through the
streets of London and met with British Prime Minister Tony Blair.


"I think it's an over-reaction," said former England skipper
Botham. "Did people complain in 2005 when we won the Ashes? Some
people go to bed at 10.30pm tired, other people like to go for a
drink."


Flintoff, 29, captained England to victory in their triangular
series final win against hosts Australia last month after Vaughan
played just three matches in a tournament also featuring New
Zealand because of a hamstring problem.

