

Hibernian hammered Kilmarnock 5-1 to lift the Scottish League Cup
at Hampden Stadium on Sunday - their first trophy in 16 years.


Rob Jones headed the Edinburgh side ahead in the first half
before doubles for Moroccan forward Abdessalam Benjelloun and
Steven Fletcher after the break decided the destination of the
first silverware of the Scottish season.


Gordon Greer briefly gave hope to Jim Jefferies' team to make it
3-1 but in the end it was scant consolation to the Ayrshire
club's support.


It has been Kilmarnock who had settled into the game, which began
in near blizzard conditions, quickest and were first to test
their opponent's goalkeeper.


Peter Leven's fifth minute corner eventually found its way to
Steven Naismith at the back post and his looping header required
Hibs stopper Andy McNeil to claw the ball away.


With the snow continuing to fall heavily Hibs began to find their
feet on the slippery Hampden surface and created their first
scoring opportunity in the 12th minute.


Lewis Stevenson cut inside from the left and struck a right-foot
effort from 12-yards which required Killie keeper Alan Combe to
make a fine one-handed stop at full-stretch to his left.


But in the 27th the Edinburgh side did break the deadlock.


David Murphy's deep corner found Rob Jones at the back post and
the big central defender sent a powerful header past Combe into
the back of the net.


Hibs were denied a second in the 33rd minute by Kilmarnock keeper
Combe.


Steven Whittaker crossed from the right and Moroccan forward
Benjelloun rose to direct a downward header towards the corner of
the net which required Combe to fling himself to his left to turn
round the post.


Hibs keeper McNeil had to look sharp to save Frazer Wright's low
drive in the 38th minute after the Killie defender's first
attempt from a free-kick had rebounded off the defensive wall
into his path.


On the stroke of half-time the Easter Road almost doubled their
advantage when Murphy's corner dropped to Benjelloun 10-yards
from goal and his low drive required Combe to block with his
legs.


Hibs came out of the break looking to increase their advantage
and they duly did so in the 59th minute.


Whittaker won a header on the right to stop a Killie attack and
then passed forward to Benjelloun who carried the ball inside
towards goal before curling a clinical left-foot shot from
18-yards beyond Combe into the left-hand corner of the net.


The goal seemed to knock the stuffing out Kilmarnock and in the
66th minute Hibs finished the match as a contest.


Scott Brown split the Ayrshire team's defence with a perfectly
weighted pass into the path of Fletcher who did not break stride
before firing low past Combe from 16-yards into the corner of the
net.


Kilmarnock grabbed a glimmer of hope in the 78th minute.


Gary Locke, who had replaced Paul Di Giacomo three minutes
earlier, crossed from the left to Colin Nish who headed back
across goal for Greer to nod home from six-yards.


But in the 85th minute Hibs restored their three goal advantage.


Fletcher played the ball inside from the left to Benjelloun and
he took a touch before firing under the body of Combe.


And two minutes later the Killie goalkeeper gifted Hibs with a
fifth when he completely fluffed an attempted clearance,
succeeding only in playing the ball straight to Fletcher who
gratefully rolled the ball into the net to clinch the trophy they
had won in 1991.

