

The special joint military force set up to rid Nigeria's volatile
Niger Delta of militants accused of violent acts has stepped up
its campaign in the region, a military spokesman said Sunday.


"In the past days, the Joint Task Force (JTF) has intensified its
crackdown on the militants' bases in the Niger Delta,"  Major
Musa Sagir told AFP by telephone. "These operations are aimed at
getting rid of armed militants in the region who are perpetrating
violence and acts of brigandage."


He added: "It is going to be a continuous and sustained
assignment. Since we began the operation, insecurity is Rivers
State, for example, has been put under control."


On Saturday, JTF agents raided the Okporowo Ogbakiri community in
the town of Emuoha in Rivers State, believed to be a major
hideout of militants involved in the kidnapping of foreigners.


The JTF is made up of the army, the navy, the police and state
security service officials.


Since the beginning of 2006, when kidnapping increased sharply in
southern Nigeria's oil-producing region, more than 100 foreigners
have been seized, either by armed groups with a political agenda
or by criminal gangs out to make ransom money.


Most have been linked to the oil industry and have been released
unharmed within a few weeks.


Last week, JTF officers had launched a raid on Okrika, a major
town in Rivers State, and in an exchange of fire with the
militants the deputy of Ateke Tom, leader of a notorious armed
militia group in the community, was killed, Sagir said.


"Okrika is regarded as a flashpoint in Rivers State. It is the
home of Ateke Tom. It was also the base for armed robbers, oil
'bunkerers' (thieves) and kidnappers of foreign oil workers,"
Sagir said.


"Some arrests were made during the raid and the suspects were
handed over to the police for interrogation and prosecution," he
added.


After the raid on Okrika, a JTF unit was stationed in the town
"to ensure proper security," he said.


Reduced output due to unrest cost Nigeria, Africa's largest oil
producer, some 4.4 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros) last year,
according to official sources.

