

Jose Mourinho insists Chelsea can cope with the strain of chasing
a quadruple trophy haul.


Mourinho's side face their third game in six days and their sixth
this month when they travel to London rivals Tottenham for an FA
Cup quarter-final replay on Monday.


The relentless schedule has taken its toll on the English
champions with Wayne Bridge out of action for a month and Michael
Essien struggling with a knee injury.


But Mourinho still rested Didier Drogba and Michael Ballack for
Saturday's win over Sheffield United and the Portuguese coach
believes his rotation policy will allow Chelsea to remain fresh
for the crucial final weeks of the season.


"We are involved in the battle for all the trophies so there are
more games we have to play and win than almost anyone else," said
Mourinho.


"That is why we will have to use some rotation where we can. But
it's not always easy.


"It has been that sort of season but we have been able to cope
and win and move on.


"I am not complaining. That is how we want it to be at this stage
of the season. I want us to be in all the competitions and I want
our players to be involved in top international games.


"But more than anything I want us to win and to do that we are
going to have to put in a lot of good preparation work off the
pitch, and hard work on it."


Chelsea have already won the League Cup and are still in
contention for the Premiership and Champions League, while
victory at White Hart Lane would set up an FA Cup semi-final
against Blackburn.


Mourinho's team recovered from 3-1 down against Spurs to set up
Monday's replay and he will tell his players to go for broke in
north London.


"In almost every game this season we have got to win," Mourinho
said. "We didn't have to win against Tottenham in the FA Cup, but
it felt like a win coming back from 3-1 down to 3-3.


"Now, however, we have to win at White Hart Lane on Monday in the
replay.


"Of course at this stage of the season if you want to win a
trophy you have to win games and keep winning."

