

Baghdad bombs killed five more US troops, the US military said on
Sunday, as security forces braced for chemical attacks after a
dirty bomb left 350 civilians and six American soldiers sick.


Almost exactly four years after the invasion of Iraq, American
casualties are still mounting as US and Iraqi forces battle to
quell the insurgent and sectarian violence gripping the country.


In other violence in the Iraqi capital, a city steeped in Sunni-
Shiite bloodletting, insurgents killed a policeman and two
bystanders in separate incidents on Sunday, security officials
said.


A US military statement said four troops died on Saturday when a
roadside bomb ripped through a patrol in west Baghdad while
another soldier was killed the same day when a foot patrol was
hit by a bomb in the south.


An Iraqi policeman and one civilian were killed and five
policemen wounded when a roadside bomb struck a police patrol
near the renowned Al-Mustansiriyah University in eastern Baghdad
on Sunday, security officials said.


Another civilian was killed and one was wounded in a mortar
attack in central Baghdad's Al-Fadhel district.


Iraqi security forces are repeatedly targeted by insurgents
opposed to the US- backed government, while Al-Mustansiriyah
University has been hit several times, including by a female
suicide bomber who killed 40 people in February.


Insurgents continue to carry out attacks in Baghdad despite the
presence of 90,000 US and Iraqi troops on the streets, as part of
Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law) launched last month to
quell sectarian violence.


US commanders say roadside bombs remain their biggest headache
and have launched special operations to find car bomb factories
hidden in the rural areas surrounding Baghdad.


They also warn that insurgents have modified their tactics by
adding gas bombs to their arsenal and striking soft targets in
the belt of small towns around the capital that are at present
beyond the reach of the security plan.


On Friday, insurgents detonated three trucks filled with toxic
chlorine gas in Anbar province, west of Baghdad, putting at least
350 Iraqi civilians in hospital and killing two policemen, the US
military reported.


Two attacks were carried out just south of the town of Fallujah
and one northeast of the nearby city of Ramadi, both hotbeds of
Al-Qaeda militants in Anbar province.


"Approximately 350 Iraqi civilians and six coalition force
members were treated for chlorine gas exposure," said Lieutenant
Roger Hollenbeck of the US-led Multinational Division West, based
in Ramadi.


Iraqi state television reported that at least six people were
killed in the blasts, but the US military could initially only
confirm the deaths of two Iraqi policemen in the second
explosion, in Ameriyah outside Fallujah.


"Coalition forces confirmed that the Ameriyah citizens exposed to
the chlorine were treated locally for symptoms ranging from minor
skin and lung irritation to vomiting," Hollenbeck said in a
statement.


In each attack a suicide bomber detonated a vehicle packed with
explosives and gas canisters near police and civilian targets.


Iraqi interior ministry operations director Brigadier General
Abdel Karim Khalaf confirmed the bombings and suggested they may
have been carried out in revenge for recent government successes
against insurgents in Ramadi.


Sunni tribes from Anbar have united in a coalition to oppose Al-
Qaeda, sending thousands of young men to join the government
security forces and cooperating with US and Iraqi commanders.


The US military, meanwhile, announced that a Task Force Lightning
soldier died in a non-combat related incident in northern Tikrit
city.


The latest deaths brought the US military's losses in Iraq since
the March 2003 invasion to 3,218, according to an AFP count based
on Pentagon figures.

