

Zimbabwe's main opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai said Sunday
that the crisis- hit country was at a "tipping point", in a
telephone interview with BBC television.


Asked whether Zimbabwe was on the edge of a "moment of
liberation," Tsvangirai responded: "Things are bad but I think
this crisis has reached a tipping point and we could be seeing
the beginning of the end of this dictatorship."


Turning to his recent head injuries sustained at the hands of
President Robert Mugabe's security services, he added: "My
physical condition is greatly improved. I am recovering."


Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) president Tsvangirai left
hospital in a wheelchair last Friday. Doctors told him he was out
of danger and had suffered no brain damage after his arrest for
trying to attend a banned rally in Harare last Sunday.


Images of a badly beaten Tsvangirai and his supporters triggered
worldwide condemnation, particularly from Mugabe's arch foes in
London and Washington.


His comments came as Zimbabwe's crackdown on dissent continued
Sunday, as an opposition activist was stopped from leaving the
country at Harare International Airport and was badly beaten, his
colleagues reported.


The attack on Nelson Chamisa, a spokesman for the MDC, comes amid
mounting criticism on the continent and abroad of the government
action against opposition activists. He became the third
opposition politician to be blocked from leaving the country this
weekend.


Tsvangirai told the BBC: "This morning when Nelson Chamisa tried
to go to the airport on a scheduled mission to Brussels, he was
attacked by men and he is also in hospital now, having suffered a
very serious fracture in his eye.


"This is a pattern which is increasing in intensity and I think
that this is a very serious situation.


Chamisa was on his way to attend an Africa Caribbean Pacific
(ACP) - European Union (EU) meeting in Belgium.


Britain criticised Mugabe on Saturday, saying the beatings of
opposition leaders had been a "deliberate act of policy."


Mugabe has brushed aside such international condemnation, saying
Western governments could "go hang," and accusing the opposition
of waging a violent campaign against him.


Tsvangirai added on Sunday: "It's very important that
international solidarity is being shown.


"A combination of national and international pressure is
required."


Turning to fears over his own safety, he added:


"We don't downgrade the risk that we are exposed to ... but we
aren't going to give up."

