

The trial of an Algerian Islamist fighter known as Abderrazak El-
Para charged with the kidnapping of 32 European tourists in 2003
has been postponed for several months, the court president said
Sunday.


"The trial will be postponed until the next criminal court
session (in May-June) due to legal procedures," court president
Mahfoud Zibouchi said only minutes after opening the trial.


The tourists, from Germany, Switzerland, Austria and the
Netherlands, were seized in groups while travelling across the
Algerian Sahara. All were released by August 2003, within six
months of their capture, apart from a German woman found dead of
heatstroke in the desert.


El-Para, a former soldier whose real name is Amari Saifi, was not
present at the opening of the trial on Sunday, despite being in
prison in Algiers since 2004, thanks to a quirk of Algerian law.


This states that if a prosecution is brought against a person
while they are on the run -- as in his case -- then it must be
concluded as if they were still absent, or be started afresh.


As a result, his lawyers said El-Para could face a new trial for
exactly the same charges, where he would be present, but opening
a new prosecution case would hold up Sunday's proceedings.


It remained unclear whether he would be required to attend the
trial when it reopens and no details of the judge's ruling were
immediately available.


Nine other people are due be tried in absentia alongside El-Para,
who was at the time of the kidnappings the number two of the
armed radical Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC).


Seventeen hostages, including ten Austrians, six Germans and a
Swiss, were freed in May 2003 by the Algerian army north of
Tamanrasset, in Algeria.


Another 14, of whom nine were German, four Swiss and one Dutch,
were freed in August that year in the Kidal region of Mali amid
unconfirmed reports of a five- million-euro (6.7-million-dollar)
ransom payment by the German government.


El-Para crossed the Sahara through Mali and Niger for the Tibesti
region in northern Chad following the kidnapping but was captured
by Chad rebels there and handed over to the Algerian authorities
in 2004 under Libyan mediation.


Sunday's short-lived trial came a day after Hassan Hattab, who
created the GSPC but has since been expelled, and Mokhtar
Belmokhtar, who led the south Saharan branch of the Al-Qaeda-
linked group, were sentenced to death in absentia.


Press reports said the sentences were handed down Saturday by a
court in the northern garrison town of Batna, where the two had
been charged with setting up armed terrorist groups, attacks
against the state, premeditated murder, arson, theft and
possession of banned weapons.


Hattab opposed the GSPC's recent decision to become the Maghreb
branch of Al- Qaeda and the Algerian authorities said he now
wanted to surrender to profit from last year's national peace
charter, which pardons Islamists who disarm.


Belmokhtar leads a small armed group, which according to the
Algerian authorities work with smugglers who attack oil workers
and truck drivers crossing the desert to Mali and sub-Saharan
Africa.


Police have denied reports in the Algerian press that he had
died.

