

Pakistan's botched World Cup campaign ended in predictable agony
after a build- up which was disrupted by off-field turmoil and
controversy.


Their sensational three-wicket defeat to Ireland on Saturday was
described as the "saddest" day in Pakistan's cricket history by
former skipper Aamir Sohail.


"As a former captain and ex-chairman of selectors I am ashamed
and appalled at this loss," said Sohail, who is here as
television commentator.


Pakistan had entered the World Cup on the back of a doping
scandal involving bowling spearheads Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad
Asif.


Akhtar was banned for two years and Asif for one year after both
tested positive for banned substance nandrolone in November last
year.


A month later, the bans were controversially lifted on appeal.


The pair did not appear at mandatory dope tests before the World
Cup and were pulled out of the tournament hours before team's
departure for the Caribbean on fitness grounds.


Pakistan's problems were further aggravated when all-rounder
Abdul Razzaq suffered a freak accident and was ruled out with a
fractured knee.


Despite the poor build-up, Pakistan showed early promise by
beating Canada and world number one South Africa in their warm-up
matches in Trinidad but lost their way once the tournament
started.


They were in a must-win situation when they faced Ireland after
losing their first match to the West Indies by 54 runs, but
instead put up a disappointing show to suffer their worst-ever
World Cup exit.


"It is worse than the last World Cup, more shameful," said Sohail
of the 2003 World Cup during which Pakistan managed to defeat
lowly ranked Namibia and the Netherlands before bowing out in the
first round.


They now face Zimbabwe in their last match before heading home.


Sohail said the team had the potential to do better.


"I still believe they have the potential to do better but leaving
out Danish Kaneria against Ireland, who don't know to play leg-
spin, was baffling and coach Bob Woolmer and captain Inzamam-ul-
Haq have to take the blame."


Sohail believed heads must roll after the disapponting result.


"The captain sacrificed some quality players before the World
Cup. The captain and the coach must go just like in the past,"
said Sohail, referring to Pakistan's axing eight players
including Wasim Akram and then captain Waqar Younis after the
World Cup four years ago.


Pakistan's first foreign coach Richard Pybus also quit, accusing
senior players of lacking commitment.


Despite the early exit, Inzamam and Woolmer were both non-
committal over quitting.


"I apologise for the poor result," said Woolmer.


"It was just another game of cricket which we lost. I have to
think about my future."


Even after the West Indies defeat there were reports of
differences in the Pakistan squad, a charge denied by Inzamam.


"Once we lose a match all such baseless stroies creep up. There
are no differences in the team. We didn't play well and have lost
and that is that," said Inzamam, who was part of Pakistan's 1992
World Cup winning team.


Four years ago, Inzamam was among those players axed but not only
staged a comeback to the team but also became captain six months
later.


The Caribbean disaster may not save the burly batsman whose
dreams of a World Cup farewell like former Australia skipper
Steve Waugh, who won his first and his last World Cup, were
shattered.

