

West Indies' World Cup progress could be hampered by another row
over cash and contracts, it emerged on Sunday.


Tournament contracts for the 15-man squad were sent out on
Friday, according to media reports here, but it is not clear
whether the players have signed them.


"The players have not received any contracts or signed any
contracts," West Indies Players Association (WIPA) president
Dinanath Ramnarine told the Trinidad Sunday Express.


"Agreements have been reached but as far as we are concerned, we
are not clear why the contracts have not been given to the
players as yet."


Arguments over contracts are not new in the West Indies.


In 2005, skipper Brian Lara as well as a number of leading
players were dropped from the squad in a row over personal deals
while, in April 2006, the West Indies were the final Test-playing
nation to offer central retainer contracts to their stop stars.


The latest disagreement went to arbitration in February with West
Indies Cricket Board (WICB) awaiting clarification on a number of
issues arising from those talks.


"When we went to arbitration in February, a decision was made to
which we were bound. But we sought clarification on four points
within the decision," said WICB corporate communications manager,
Tony Deyal.


When asked about rumours of a players' strike in the World Cup,
Deyal told the newspaper that he was doubtful if such a drastic
measure would occur.


"We have a collective bargaining agreement which has detailed
procedures for conflict resolution. So there is no point at which
there can be a cessation of play," he said.


"Even the threat of industrial activity on anybody's part would
be a breach of the agreement. We are nowhere near any of these
things. We have conducted arbitration in good faith.


"We are very clear that the players are committed to victory. I
don't see any matters here that cannot be resolved using the
mechanisms in place in the collective bargaining agreement."


The West Indies, who beat Pakistan in their opening match in
Group D by 54 runs last Tuesday, face Zimbabwe at Sabina Park in
Kingston on Monday.

