

Gunmen stepped up attacks in Somalia's capital on Sunday, killing
a civilian and wounding four others, hours after a police chief
leading a crackdown on insurgency was shot dead in the southern
port of Kismayo.


In Mogadishu, a barrage of mortar shells fell on a civilian
district after missing their target in the seaport, where an
African Union-chartered freighter carrying military hardware is
expected to dock.


In addition, gunmen ambushed a convoy of Ethiopian troops near
the seaport in southern Mogadishu, sparking a gun battle,
highlighting the government's inability to rein in the deadly and
complex insurgency.


"A middle-aged man was killed during the cross fire near the
seaport," said Muhidin Farah, a cousin of the deceased.


Resident Abdulaziz Mohamed said most of the 13 mortars pounded a
restaurant in the nearby Hamel Jejab neighbourhood, one of the
most battle-drenched areas in the capital.


"Three people were wounded -- two of them seriously -- when a
mortar shell landed in a restaurant where I was eating," Mohamed
added. Another civilian got injured near the port.


A duty police official in the seaport said: "The insurgents have
fired 13 mortar shells at the seaport, but no one was injured
inside here. Most of the shells landed outside the port
compound."


"There was a small gunfire after gunmen ambushed Ethiopian forces
near the seaport, but no one was injured," added the officer.


In Kismayo, 500 kilometres (310 miles) south of Mogadishu,
regional police commander Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was killed
overnight in his compound in the port town by one of his body
guards.


A second bodyguard and two children in a neighbouring house were
injured in the incident, witnesses said. The man suspected of
shooting Abdulle has been arrested and taken into custody.


"He was shot at close-range and bled too much. He was pronounced
dead on arrival in hospital," said Ahmed Abdi, a police officer.


Abdulle had gained reputation for his unrelenting crackdown on
gunmen in the port town, which was the last bastion of a powerful
Islamist movement that was ousted from much of south and central
Somalia in January.


Earlier this month, the African Union deployed 1,200 Ugandan
troops to Somalia, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force aiming
to enable Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to take
over security.


The peacekeepers, who have also been targets of attacks, are
expected to help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed exert control
across his war-fatiqued, natural disaster-prone nation.


Since their arrival on March 6, Ugandan troops have been encamped
inside the Mogadishu airport awaiting the arrival of military
equipment before starting patrols.


A previous US-UN peace mission in the 1990s ended disastrously
after the peacekeepers fought pitched battles with Somali
warlords, who later carved up the nation of 10 million into a
patchwork of unruly fiefdoms.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since the 1991 ouster
of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.

