

A growing number of Chinese firms are now among the leading
global corporations, said a Forbes magazine report Thursday that
places US banking giant Citigroup in the top spot.


Citigroup heads the Forbes list of 2,000 global public companies,
ranked on a formula of sales, profits, assets and stock-market
value.


The list now has 80 companies based in Hong Kong or China,
including 16 additions from last year, while the United States
has 34 fewer companies compared with last year's rankings.


US-based Bank of America was number-two in the global rankings,
following by British banking group HSBC, US-based conglomerate
General Electric, US banking firm JP Morgan Chase and insurance
giant American International Group.


ExxonMobil, the US oil giant, was ranked seventh, followed by
Royal Dutch Shell, Swiss-based UBS and Dutch-based bank ING.


The rankings differ from other lists based on stock market value,
sales or profits.


US retailer Wal-Mart Stores had the highest sales -- 348 billion
dollars -- but was ranked 17th on the Forbes list. Seventh-ranked
ExxonMobil had the biggest profit at 39.5 billion dollars and the
highest stock market value at 410 billion.


Even with fewer US names on this year's list, the remaining US
companies had a combined market capitalization of 13.9 trillion
dollars, Forbes said.


Forbes said the total revenues of the companies headquartered in
Switzerland exceeded the country's gross domestic product.


The 2,000 companies saw sales up 10 percent in 2006, with profits
increasing 32 percent and market value gaining 17 percent,
according to the magazine.


The 116 oil companies had the biggest revenues of any sector but
the biggest profits were in banking, it added.


Argentina posted its first company on the list, Telecom
Argentina, ranked 1,858th. A total of 57 countries were
represented.


China's top-ranked firm was PetroChina, number 41 on the list.
Toyota, number 12 on the list, was the highest-ranked Japanese
firm.


BNP Paribas, number 14 overall, was the highest-ranked French
firm. Allianz was number 15 and the top-ranked German company.

