

The US Senate tied Iraq war funding to a timetable for
withdrawing US troops, on Thursday setting the stage for a bitter
fight with President George W. Bush.


The measure seeking to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy
was approved by a vote mostly along party lines of 51 to 47.


The bill sets a mandatory start to a troop pullout within 120
days of its final passage, and a guideline of March 21, 2008 for
withdrawal of most US combat forces.


"This legislation serves the best interests of our troops," said
Democratic Senator Robert Byrd on the Senate floor after the
vote.


"With passage of this bill, the Senate sends a clear message to
the president that we must take the war in Iraq in a new
direction," he said.


But the White House condemned the vote, saying the lack of an
emergency Iraq spending bill already has forced the Pentagon to
reallocate funds from other defense areas.


"This re-programming of funds is only necessary because Congress
has failed to act in a timely manner on the president's emergency
funding request," White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said
Thursday.


"This again underscores the need to get the show on the road, get
the bill to the president. He will veto it and then we'll take it
from there."


The legislation provides some 122 billion dollars to fund the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as money for a number of
unrelated projects, from health care for returning soldiers and
veterans to Hurricane Katrina recovery.


The bill, and the days of impassioned debate leading up to its
passage, have set up the sharpest confrontation yet between the
Democratic-led Congress and the US president, who adamantly
rejects time restrictions on the presence of US troops.


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq, a bill that doesn't fund our troops, a bill that's got too
much spending on it," Bush said after meeting Thursday with
Republican congressional allies.


"When we've got commanders making tough decisions on the ground,
we expect there to be no strings on our commanders," the
president said.


Democrats swept to power in the two-chamber Congress in November
elections, riding a wave of voter disgust at the Iraq war, which
has cost more than 3,200 US lives and left tens of thousands of
Iraqis dead.


The bill prevailed in part because of key Republican defections,
including longtime Iraq war critic Senator Chuck Hagel and
Senator Gordon Smith. Democrats meanwhile, saw independent
Democratic Senator Joseph Lieberman vote with Republicans on the
measure.


Democrats were able on Tuesday to turn back Republican attempts
to strip the pullout deadline from the spending bill. Measures on
early troop withdrawal have now squeaked by in both chambers by
razor-thin margins, but Democrats concede that they are unlikely
to muster the two-thirds vote to override a presidential veto.


Still they said, the vote was a powerful message of the "new
direction" demanded in Iraq by the Congress and the US public.


Republicans could have "filibustered" Tuesday's vote, by refusing
to end debate and call the question. They did so earlier this
month on a non-binding resolution criticizing Bush's January
decision to send extra troops to Iraq.


But minority leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it.


"This bill is the document of our defeat. The president knows
this. That's why he's said for weeks that he isn't going to sign
it," the Republican leader said.


"No bill has deserved the veto pen more than this one," McConnell
said.


The Senate bill now needs to be reconciled with the House version
passed last week.


The House of Representatives approved 124 billion dollars for the
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but links the money to removing
troops from Iraq by August 31, 2008.


And while a showdown with Bush loomed larger than ever, Democrats
on Thursday urged the president to sit down with lawmakers to
find common ground.


"I hope that the president will drop his rhetoric and instead
work with Congress to craft a responsible plan to transition our
forces from Iraq," Byrd said.

