

Two thirds of the world's population will be living in cities in
50 years time, up from 50 percent now, an international
conference on the challenges of urbanisation in Madrid heard on
Thursday.


City leaders from across the world, including the mayors of Sao
Paulo, Milan, Lisbon, Stockholm, Singapore and Casablanca,
gathered to discuss the impact this growth has on the environment
and people's quality of life.


The head of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) Angel Gurria warned that cities emit 70
percent of greenhouse gases and said they must urgently respond
to the affect this has on global warming.


Earlier this month, 200 local government leaders from five
continents called for a "braver" approach in dealing with global
warming at a meeting of the United Cities and Local Governments
(UCLG) in Paris.


According to the OECD, there are currently 400 cities across the
world with more than one million inhabitants, and this figure is
growing.


Pollution is seriously affecting the quality of life in
metropolitan areas such as Tokyo, Shanghai, Beijing, Mexico City,
Cairo and Lagos, and Gurria warned that immigration was adding
extra pressure.


The proportion of immigrants in Madrid, a town of 3.2 million
inhabitants, has gone up from four to 15 percent in the past six
years, he said.


Madrid's mayor Alberto Ruiz Gallardon, one of the organisers of
the two-day conference set up under the aupices of the OECD, said
cities must coordinate to pre-empt and not just react to the
"enormous challenges" of urbanisation.


Spain's public administration minister Jordi Sevilla Segura added
that while cities could drive creativity and innovation, they
were also the cause of "serious social divisions".


In 1950, only a third of people lived in urban areas, but this
increased to 50 percent in 2007 and will rise to two-thirds in 50
years time, Sevilla said.


He announced that new research would be carried out in Spain
after May's local elections to identify factors affecting the
quality of life in cities.

