

US opposition Democrats accused President George W. Bush of
acting to "undermine" the country's troops in Iraq by vowing to
veto a military funding bill which sets a timetable for their
withdrawal.


"I don't know if you could ever find a time ... when a president
has done more to undermine troops in the field than this," said
Democrats' Senate majority leader Harry Reid.


"If the president vetoes this bill ... he sets the record," he
said.


He was speaking shortly after the US Senate approved a bill which
aims to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy by tying
funding for the war to a timetable for withdrawing US troops by
August 2008.


It set up the sharpest confrontation yet between the Democratic-
led Congress and the Republican president, who on Thursday
adamantly rejected any time restrictions on the presence of US
troops.


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq, a bill that doesn't fund our troops, a bill that's got too
much spending on it," Bush said on Thursday.


"When we've got a troop in harm's way, we expect that troop to be
fully funded. When we've got commanders making tough decisions on
the ground, we expect there to be no strings on our commanders,"
the president said.


House of Representatives Republican minority leader Mitch
McConnell dismissed the bill as "political statement" that had no
chance of becoming law, while Democrats urged the president to
sit down with lawmakers to find common ground on it.


"The ball is in the president's court," Reid said Thursday.


The bill sets a mandatory start to a troop pullout within 120
days of its final passage, and a guideline of March 21, 2008 for
the completion of the withdrawal of most US combat forces.


Reid reiterated comments by the Speaker of the House, Democrat
Nancy Pelosi, telling Bush to tone down what they regard as his
aggressive stance on the troop withdrawal issue.


"We have as much power under the constitution as does the
president," Reid said, referring to the Democrat majority which
seized control of Congress in November 2006 midterm elections,
buoyed by voter opposition to the Iraq war.


"Mr President, calm down, there's a new Congress in town," he
said.

