

Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo Thursday formally appointed
rebel leader Guillaume Soro as his prime minister as part of a
peace accord between the former arch-rivals, his spokesman said.


Desire Tagro said the decree was signed during a meeting between
the two men in Abidjan, following the accord reached in the
Burkina Faso capital of Ouagadougou on March 4.


The Ivorian peace accord envisages a government of 33 cabinet
ministers, of which 18 portfolios will go to Soro's New Forces
group.


Soro, a 34-year-old former student leader, led an attempted coup
against Gbagbo in 2002, sparking a civil war that left the rebels
holding the north of the country, once a cocoa-rich economic
powerhouse.


Gbagbo said on Tuesday that the new government would be in place
"this week or next week at the latest."


"The war is finished and the crisis is finished. All the
agreements have been signed," Gbago said, adding that once the
government was in place he would immediately embark on a tour of
the "occupied zones" in the north where citizens "have not seen
their chief for a long time."


Soro will replace Charles Konan Banny, who was approved as prime
minister by the United Nations Security Council in 2005. However,
he struggled to carry out his task of pursuing the peace process
in the divided West African country and moving toward new
elections.


Konan Banny said Monday that he had succeeded in his mission by
"restoring trust" between the main players.


Soro accepted an offer in January for "direct dialogue" with his
former enemy Gbagbo to take the country toward a peace accord and
elections.


"I would like to salute all the Ivorians and all those who
contributed to conditions such that the peace process gives hope
to Ivorians," Soro said after his meeting with Gbago.


He said he would make an address to the nation in his capcity as
prime minister "very soon."


Soro led an Ivory Coast student union from 1995 to 1998 and was
given the nickname "Che" because of his left-wing militant
activities. He was imprisoned several times for taking part in
demonstrations against the ruling party of the time.


After living in Britain and then France, Soro returned to the
Ivory Coast and appeared at the side of General Robert Guei, who
overthrew President Henri Konan Bedie in 2000.


Soro was also close to former prime minister Alassane Ouattara
when he was banned from the 2000 presidential election.


In October 2002, Soro was the secretary general of the Ivory
Coast Patriotic Movement which took control of the north of the
country after the coup attempt against Gbagbo. He later became
leader of the New Forces rebellion which took control of 60
percent of the cocoa-rich country.


After a first peace accord in January 2003, Soro was part of a
national reconciliation government and was communications
minister from 2004 to 2005.


The New Forces have been demanding that Soro become prime
minister since late 2005. He was a minister for reconstruction in
Konan Banny's government.

