

Some 1,000 Bosnian Serbs rallied Thursday to demand a referendum
on the independence of their entity of Republika Srpska.


"We are demanding that Republika Srpska's parliament organise a
referendum" on secession from the rest of Bosnia, said Dane
Cankovic, the head of the group that organised the demonstration.


His Serb People's Movement handed the parliament a petition
bearing 9,000 signatures of local Serbs demanding such a vote.


Republika Srpska (RS) and the Muslim-Croat Federation are the two
highly independent entities created in the peace deal that ended
Bosnia's 1992-1995 war. They are linked by weak central
institutions.


On Thursday, Serb protestors carried flags and chanted slogans at
a gathering in downtown Banja Luka, the administrative capital of
their entity.


"For freedom, for a referendum," "All for Srpska," and "Give your
signature for RS's secession from Bosnia," read some of their
banners.


According to Cankovic, the petition was motivated by
dissatisfaction with calls by Muslim politicians to centralise
power in Bosnia and to abolish Republika Srpska.


"Bosnia cannot be preserved as a state because Muslim politicians
are trying to take from us everything, starting from the national
anthem, coat of arms and even Republika Srpska itself," said
Cankovic.


Bosnian Serb Prime Minister Milorad Dodik has publicly toyed with
the idea of an independence referendum in the past, most recently
in the lead-up to elections in October last year.


However, under the Dayton peace accords that brought an end to
Bosnia's inter- ethnic war, neither of the two entities is
allowed to break away and form its own state.


Even if Republika Srpska's parliament approved an independence
referendum, it is likely to be blocked by the international
community and its all-powerful envoy to the country, currently
Germany's Christian Schwarz-Schilling.


Meanwhile, the Bosnian Serb parliament moved Thursday to protect
the Serb-run entity from abolition by making a declaration
backing its preservation.


The demands by Muslim politicians for the abolition of RS
gathered momentum last month after the International Court of
Justice ruled the 1995 Srebrenica massacre of 8,000 Muslim males
by Serb forces amounted to genocide.


Some argued the ruling proved Bosnia's Serb-run half should be
abolished because it was created on genocide.

