

The US Senate on Thursday approved a  bill tying funding for the
war in Iraq to a timetable for withdrawing US troops, setting the
stage for a bitter fight with President George W. Bush.


The measure seeking to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy,
was approved by a vote essentially along party lines of 51 to 47.


The bill sets a mandatory start to a troop pullout within 120
days of its final passage, and a guideline of March 21, 2008 for
the completion of the withdrawal of most US combat forces.


"This legislation serves the best interests of our troops," said
Democratic Senator Robert Byrd on the Senate floor after the
vote.


"With passage of this bill, the Senate sends a clear message to
the president that we must take the war in Iraq in a new
direction," he said.


The legislation provide some 122 billion dollars to fund the war
in Afghanistan, as well as money for a number of unrelated
projects, from health care for returning soldiers and veterans to
Hurricane Katrina recovery.


The bill, and the days of impassioned debate leading up to its
passage, have set up the sharpest confrontation yet between the
Democratic-led Congress and the US president, who again on
Thursday adamantly rejected any time restrictions on the presence
of US troops.


"I'll veto a bill that restricts our commanders on the ground in
Iraq, a bill that doesn't fund our troops, a bill that's got too
much spending on it," Bush said after meeting with Republican
congressional allies.


"When we've got a troop in harm's way, we expect that troop to be
fully funded. When we've got commanders making tough decisions on
the ground, we expect there to be no strings on our commanders,"
the president said.


Democrats swept to power in the two-chamber Congress in November
elections riding a wave of voter disgust at the Iraq war, which
has cost more than 3,200 US lives and left tens of thousands of
Iraqis dead.


The bill prevailed in part because of key Republican defections,
including longtime Iraq war critics Chuck Hagel and Gordon Smith.
Democrats meanwhile, saw independent Democratic senator Joseph
Lieberman vote with Republicans on the measure.


Democrats were able earlier in the week to turn back Republican
attempts to strip the pullout deadline from the spending bill.
Measures on early troop withdrawal have now squeaked by in both
chambers by razor-thin margins, but Democrats conceded that they
were unlikely to muster the two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto.


Still they said, the vote was a powerful message of the "new
direction" demanded in Iraq by the Congress and the US public.


Senate Republicans could have blocked Tuesday's vote by using the
parliamentary stalling tactic called a "filibuster," as they did
with a vote earlier this month on a non-binding resolution
criticizing Bush's January decision to send extra troops to Iraq.


But minority leader Mitch McConnell said he decided it would be
far more expeditious to let the bill pass, then allow the
president to veto it.


"This bill is the document of our defeat. The president knows
this. That's why he's said for weeks that he isn't going to sign
it," the Republican leader said.


"And because it has no chance of becoming law, because the
Democrats knew it never had a chance of becoming law, it's
nothing more than a political statement," McConnell said
Thursday. "No bill has deserved the veto pen more than this one."


The Senate bill now will be reconciled with one passed last week
in the House of Representatives, which approved 124-billion-
dollars for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but links the money
to a binding deadline to remove troops from Iraq by August 31,
2008.


And while a showdown with Bush loomed larger than ever, Democrats
on Thursday urged the president to sit down with lawmakers to
find common ground.


"I hope that the president will drop his rhetoric and instead
work with Congress to craft a responsible plan to transition our
forces from Iraq," Byrd said.


"Instead of demonizing the Congress and engaging in rhetorical
finger-pointing, the president ought to work with Congress on
legislation that is in the best interests of the country."

