

Jacob Oram and Scott Styris starred in New Zealand's seven-wicket
win over the West Indies as the Black Caps began their Super
Eight campaign in style at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here
Thursday.


For the West Indies this was a second comprehensive defeat in as
many days after their 103-run reverse against reigning champions
Australia and now the hosts face a major struggle to qualify for
the semi-finals.


Chasing 178 to win, New Zealand finished on 179 for three with
more than 10 overs to spare.


Styris was 80 not out - his third fifty of this tournament - with
Craig McMillan unbeaten on 33 as the experienced duo shared an
unbroken fourth-wicket stand of 102.


Victory had been all but assured by a disciplined bowling display
that saw New Zealand dismiss the West Indies for 177 with 32
balls left in the innings.


Oram took three for 23, his treble behind a slump that saw three
top-order wickets lost for 15 runs in six overs.


Fast bowler Shane Bond had three for 31 and left-arm spinner
Daniel Vettori, who late on took two wickets in two balls,
finished with three for 39.


Impressive wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum led a fine fielding
effort with four catches.


In reply, New Zealand's Peter Fulton, promoted to open after Lou
Vincent's World Cup ended when his wrist was broken batting
against Bond in the nets on Sunday, was bowled second ball by
Daren Powell.


Hamish Marshall, Vincent's replacement, then fell for 15 when he
chipped Powell to West Indies captain Brian Lara at mid-off.


But left-hander Fleming, driving confidently and lofting Corey
Collymore for six over square leg, received solid support from
Styris.


Fleming was though run out by yards for a 66-ball 45 after Lara's
direct hit from mid-wicket on the striker's end stumps.


New Zealand were now 77 for three but McMillan stopped any West
Indian momentum that may have been building with three aggressive
boundaries off seamer Dwayne Smith.


Styris subssequently completed a 72-ball fifty with three fours.


Earlier Chris Gayle (44) and Lara (37) were the only West Indies
batsmen to make headway following Fleming's decision to field
first.


The new ball duo of Michael Mason and Bond ensured runs were hard
to come by early on with some accurate swing bowling and it was
only the introduction of left-armer James Franklin, whose three-
overs cost 29 runs, that released the pressure.


Oram, however, maintained New Zealand's grip when Ramnaresh
Sarwan (19), was superbly caught left-handed by a diving McCullum
after the batsman inside-edged an intended cover-drive.


The giant all-rounder struck again when Marlon Samuels (nine) was
caught behind off the glove before he had Gayle, chopping onto
his stumps for 44 made in 56 balls with eight boundaries.


West Indies were now 81 for four with, as happened against
Australia, none of the top four making a big score.


Lara, nearly run out on eight by McCullum's throw to the bowler's
end, and Dwayne Bravo rebuilt steadily while adding 47 for the
fourth wicket.


But their partnership was broken when Bond's first ball back saw
Bravo caught behind for 18.


Canny medium-pacer Styris then deceived Lara with a slower ball
and an edged drive was well-held by McCullum before the tail came
and went.


West Indies, playing for a third straight day after their match
against Australia spanned Tuesday and Wednesday because of rain,
face Sri Lanka in Guyana on Sunday and 24 hours later New Zealand
take on Bangladesh in Antigua.

