

The White House Thursday urged defiant lawmakers to quickly send
President George W. Bush a bill tying funds for the Iraq war to a
withdrawal so he can veto it, and draw up new proposals.


Suggesting that the war effort risks running out of cash, the
White House said the Pentagon was already borrowing funds from
other military programs to pay for military operations on the
ground.


"Just this morning, the Department of Defense notified Congress
that in order to meet the force protection needs of the Marine
corps and the army we are borrowing funds from other important
marine and army procurement programs," spokeswoman Dana Perino
said.


The warning came after the Senate earlier Thursday approved a
text seeking to force a dramatic change in US Iraq policy by
demanding that US troops should start pulling out of Iraq four
months after the bill is passed.


The legislation provide some 122 billion dollars to fund the war
in Afghanistan, as well as money for a number of unrelated
projects, from health care for returning soldiers and veterans to
Hurricane Katrina recovery.


But it sets a guideline of March 21, 2008 for the completion of
the withdrawal of most US combat forces, something Bush has vowed
to oppose.


Measures on early troop withdrawal have now squeaked by in both
chambers by razor-thin margins, but Democrats conceded that they
were unlikely to muster the two-thirds vote to override a
presidential veto.


The two chambers now have to agree on a single common text to
present to Bush, who has already said he would veto it.


The White House has warned that because of the lengthy debates in
Congress, funds could start running out by April 15, and has
accused the Democrats of seeking to force Bush's hand over the
war.


"This reprogramming of funds is only necessary because Congress
has failed to act in a timely manner on the president's emergency
funding request," Perino said.


"And so this again underscores the need to get the show on the
road, get the bill to the president. He will veto it and then
we'll take it from there."

