

Fit-again Ireland captain Trent Johnston has told team-mates not
to be overawed when they take on England in the World Cup Super
Eights at Guyana National stadium here on Friday.


Ireland, playing in the World Cup for the first time, not only
shocked the cricket world by beating Pakistan in the first round,
but also surprised themselves by qualifying for the next round of
eight teams.


"It's fantastic to be here and we're still pinching ourselves a
little bit that we're here and now we need to give it our best
shot against world class teams," said Johnston.


The Irish skipper, who played his initial cricket in Australia
with New South Wales, has recovered from a shoulder injury which
forecd him to sit out the defeat against the West Indies in the
first round.


"I have bowled five overs and have come through unscathed and so
has Dave Langford-Smith, who had back spasms, so we hope to field
the best eleven."


Johnston said he has told his players to enjoy the game against
England without putting extra pressures on themselves.


"We did well to beat Pakistan and fought back in the game against
Zimbabwe (a game which ended in a tie), so if we perform like
that we can upset any other team including England. We are in the
Super Eights with confidence," said 32 -year-old Johnston.


"We didn't set any targets for ourselves, all we need is to play
at 100 percent and that is what I have asked the players. We must
be competitive and don't lose big."


Ireland, who qualified from the ICC Trophy held in their country
in 2005, beat Pakistan by three wickets after playing a
sensational tied match against Zimbabwe in the first round.


"We were told that we didn't deserve to be in the competition to
start with. We had a good performance in the lead up against
South Africa and we took that form into the group stages," said
Johnston.


South Africa were struggling at 91-8 in a pre-World Cup warm-up
match before they recovered to beat Ireland by 35 runs at Port of
Spain.


"Now they (critics) are saying that we don't deserve to be in the
Super Eights, but we are here now, we are living a dream which is
fantastic and a huge experience for us and for Irish cricket,"
said Johnston who thanked players' employers back home.


"The bosses have been outstanding," said Johnston who skippers a
15-man squad of whom 12 are amateurs.


"I think the employers realise that the game is being taken to a
new level and no one has any issue with another four weeks off."


Johnston, employed in a textile firm, hoped the team's
performance will help to lift the game in Ireland.


"It's gone cricket crazy in Ireland, which is fantastic and that
was the goal when we set out. Lots of people still didn't know
initially that we were playing in the World Cup but now they know
and people came here to support us and that was the telling
factor."

