

Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody on Thursday stressed his team needs to
learn quickly from the mistakes made against South Africa during
their one-wicket defeat in the Super Eights match.


"It will be important how we come back in our match against the
West Indies (on Sunday) who will also be looking for points,"
said Moody.


Sri Lanka, on the verge of defeat with South Africa needing four
runs with five wickets intact on Wednesday, hit back through
paceman Lasith Malinga's history- making four wickets off four
balls before last man Robin Peterson hit the winning runs.


Malinga became the first bowler in one-day international cricket
to grab four wickets off successive deliveries and fifth to
achieve a hat-trick in World Cup history.


Earlier, Sri Lanka struggled to 209 all out with South African
paceman Charl Langeveldt taking a career-best five for 39.


Moody said his team failed to keep the momentum of the first
round where they won all their Group B matches -- including a
crucial win over former champions India.


"It was not a bad defeat, but it's a defeat. I am disappointed
the way we played. We did play well in the first 30 overs but
against teams like South Africa you need to play lot more than 30
overs," Moody told the International Cricket Council website.


"There are a lot more positives which we can take from the South
Africa game but we need to learn very quickly from our mistakes
and give a better account of ourselves on Sunday."


The 41-year-old Moody, who played eight Tests and 76 one-day
internationals for Australia, said his team fell short by 20-30
runs which in the end were decisive factor.


"The wicket was impressive and so was the outfield, and we were
20 to 30 runs light and considering it was a big match for both
teams, South Africa were in a desperate situation and from our
point of view we played good cricket up to Wednesday."


Moody praised Malinga for his late burst.


"It turned out to be a heart stopping match and to be fair I
didn't think we should have been near the contest but cricket is
a funny game and the way Malinga bowled at the end it turned the
game on its head and we had a good chance to win," said the
coach.


"Malinga has been doing this for the last six to eight months, he
has been devastating with the old ball and it's no surprise to us
that he is going to bowl the guys with ones in the blockhole, he
has honed this skill," said Moody of Malinga who finished with
5-54.

