

Twelve South African lawmakers were given a dressing-down in
front of their colleagues in parliament on Thursday for their
part in a multi-million rand travel voucher fraud.


Made to rise in their seats, some stared at their toes, some
fidgeted and others stared straight ahead as speaker Baleka Mbete
chided them for abusing taxpayers' money and public trust.


The 12 have struck plea agreements with prosecutors and were
fined after admitting to theft and fraud of amounts ranging from
33,000 rand (about 4,500 dollars) to 241,000 rand.


Eleven are members of the ruling African National Congress, while
the other MP has his own small party -- the Progressive
Independent Movement.


"When you first entered this chamber, each one of you solemnly
promised to perform your functions to the best of your ability
and to uphold the laws of the land," Mbete told the group.


"That promise placed on you as on all elected representatives an
extra responsibility to espouse the highest social values."


Instead, the group's actions cast a shadow on the integrity of
all members of parliament and of the institution itself, said the
speaker.


"That is totally unacceptable to say the least."


A parliamentary committee was still considering the fate of
another 12 MPs who entered into similar plea bargains more
recently.


The South African parliament was defrauded of some 24 million
rand by lawmakers and travel agents acting in cahoots in one of
the worst scandals to hit the legislature in recent years --
dubbed "Travelgate".


The scam, unearthed in 2004, involved MPs and travel agents
making false claims and inflating the price of air tickets to
cover the cost of luxury car rentals and hotel accommodation. In
some cases MPs pocketed the cash.


The main opposition Democratic Alliance expressed concern that
the guilty MPs were still in parliament.


"These MPs stole money from the taxpayers and they must be made
to suffer the consequences," said the party's deputy chief whip
Mike Ellis.


Mbete said only political parties could discipline the members.

