

The Pakistan Cricket Board Thursday called on Jamaican
authorities to complete the probe into the murder of coach Bob
Woolmer as quickly as possible following reports that it may take
months to resolve the mystery.


"The PCB is perturbed to know that the ongoing investigations
regarding Bob Woolmer's death in Jamaica will take several months
as stated by the Jamaican authorities," the board's chairman
Nasim Ashraf said.


Woolmer was found strangled in his room at the Pegasus Hotel on
March 18, one day after Pakistan were dramatically dumped out of
the World Cup in a shock defeat to minnows Ireland.


The killing has sparked one of the most complex murder
investigations in Jamaican history and has triggered speculation
about possible links to match- fixing and illegal betting in
cricket.


Around 50 officers are now attempting to track down hundreds of
potential witnesses who were either visiting or staying at the
Pegasus Hotel in the days leading up to Woolmer's death.


Jamaica deputy police commissioner Mark Shields on Tuesday warned
that the murder investigation was not going to be solved "in 45
minutes," describing the inquiry as a slow, arduous process.


"We are going to do it properly, thoroughly and professionally
and at the end of it, it may be that we might identify a
suspect," said Shields.


"It really is down to the painstaking work of trying to sift
through as much information as we can to try and track down the
killer or killers."


Ashraf said the Pakistan Cricket Board, through the Pakistani
foreign office, had requested Jamaican authorities "to allow a
senior official to join the investigative team" in Jamaica.


A Washington-based senior Pakistani diplomat will remain in
Jamaica "to closely monitor the situation and provide the update
to the board on (a) daily basis," he said in a statement.


And a PCB official, Asad Mustafa, would stay in Jamaica until the
ongoing investigation ended, the statement added.


The PCB is also in contact with Woolmer's wife and "all possible
support is being provided to Woolmer's family," it said.

