

The United States on Thursday expressed surprise at Saudi King
Abdullah's sharp criticism of the Iraq war and sought a
"clarification," as US officials acknowledged a chill in
relations with Riyadh.


The staunch allies -- who have trumpeted their cooperation
against terrorism since the September 11, 2001 attacks -- also
disagreed on Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal's questioning
whether Israel wants Middle East peace.


For a second straight day, Washington firmly rejected the king's
description of the US presence in strife-torn Iraq as "an
illegitimate foreign occupation", the US denying both that it was
illegitimate or even an occupation.


"We were a little surprised to see those remarks. We disagree
with them," the US State Department's number three, Under
Secretary of State Nicholas Burns, told the US Congress.


"Obviously, we will seek clarification," he said, noting the
annual United Nations vote approving the US troop presence and
suggesting that the king's comments could have been misconstrued
or misreported.


At the White House, spokeswoman Dana Perino downplayed talk of a
rift between Washington and its staunch Arab ally but allowed:
"In any relationship, there are ebbs and flows."


Asked whether that meant that relations were currently at an ebb,
Perino replied: "Yes."


Questioned about the king's characterization of the US military
presence in Iraq, Perino told reporters that "it is not accurate
to say the United States is occupying Iraq" and said that it was
"certainly not" illegitimate.


"We are there at the invitation of the sovereign government of
Iraq, that was democratically elected," said Perino, who added
that the March 2003 US-led invasion was legitimate "under the UN
Security Council resolutions."


On Wednesday, the Saudi king criticized the occupation of Iraq in
an opening address to the annual Arab summit in Riyadh -- a move
some observers say is an effort to distance himself from the
embattled Bush administration.


"In beloved Iraq, blood is being shed among brothers in the
shadow of an illegitimate foreign occupation and ugly
sectarianism threatens civil war," Abdullah said.


On Thursday, the Saudi foreign minister accused Israel
consistently rejecting Arab proposals for Middle East peace and
declared that "this does not express a positive stand of a
country that wants peace."


"We all want to see peace in the Middle East, and I certainly
include Israel in that camp," Perino said when asked about the
minister's comments.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was to reach out on the
Iraq dispute to Saudi Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir, according to a
senior State Department official.


And Burns sought to downplay the row, telling lawmakers: "I am
sure this is not going to disrupt the very good work we have been
doing with Saudi Arabia in the recent months."


Washington-Riyadh disputes over Iraq aren't new. In November
2006, a top Saudi official warned in the Washington Post that the
kingdom might intervene in its war-torn neighbor to protect the
country's Sunni minority in the event of a US withdrawal.


And US officials bristled at a Washington Post account, citing
anonymous sources, that Abdullah had backed out of an April
dinner at the White House in his honor.


"No dinner was ever scheduled," said one Bush aide, who requested
anonymity.

