

India's disgruntled cricket millions will have reason to cheer
when Jeev Milkha Singh tees off for the first time at the Augusta
Masters.


The Asian number one earned the right to play in golf's showpiece
after finishing among the top 50 in 2006 following outstanding
wins in the Volvo Masters in Spain and back-to-back events in
Japan.


With India making an inglorious early exit from the cricket World
Cup in the Caribbean, Jeev gets a chance to lift the gloom and
remind his nation there is life beyond putting bat to ball.


"I've always maintained that golf is the number two sport in
India," the 35 -year-old said in a recent interview. "We have
half a dozen top golfers playing all over the world and that's
quite commendable."


Jeev, however, rued the lack of Indian sponsorship for the
country's top golfers like Arjun Atwal, Jyoti Randhawa and
himself.


"It's like (cricketers) Rahul Dravid, Sachin Tendulkar and
Virender Sehwag without an Indian sponsor," he said.


"This needs to change. If Indian companies still fail to see the
importance of sponsoring a top-40 golfer, then I don't understand
what can."


Recognition had been hard to come by for the soft-spoken Sikh,
who chose golf over cricket and athletics even though his father
Milkha Singh was India's best known track star in the 1960s.


Jeev, who studied in the United States, ventured into the unknown
when he became India's first professional golfer in 1993, but
struggled to make a mark on the world stage.


In 1997, he finished seventh at the European Tour qualifying
school and joined the tour the following year. Two years later,
he finished 50th in the Tour's Order of Merit.


A string of injuries and poor form between 2000 to 2004 left Jeev
so frustrated that self-doubts crept in, but he hung in there and
even took up yoga to clear his mind and regain peak fitness.


Jeev turned the corner last year with 18 top-10 finishes around
the world, including four titles, that lifted him to number 37 in
the world and won him his first Asian Tour's Order of Merit
crown.


This year the Indian government decorated him with the country's
fourth-highest civilian honour, the Padma Shri, an award also won
by his father 48 years ago in 1959.


"Life has changed," Jeev admitted. "I feel different myself, too.
And that's a very important aspect of the whole thing.


"Besides all the scores, the titles and the prize money, the
realisation that I am one of them, one from the top league, is a
great confidence-booster.


"Of course, golf has a way of biting back and each golfer goes
through this cycle of a downswing, but at the moment it's told me
that I belong."


Jeev says he owed his recent success to yoga, hard work and the
time spent on the Japanese circuit.


"Japan is the place to be if you want to learn about your golf
and yourself," he said.


"I am not even going into the infrastructural aspects of the
Tour. That has always been simply top drawer, but for someone to
repair his game and get it back on the road, there's no Tour like
Japan's.


"I still say that if the Japan Tour becomes a three million
dollars-a-week event, I would immediately give up dreaming of the
USPGA Tour. I owe them a lot."

