

South African spinner Robin Peterson earned the dubious
distinction of becoming the first player to get an official
reprimand in the ongoing World Cup on Thursday.


The 27-year-old from Eastern Province, smashed the stumps after
hitting the winning boundary in South Africa's nail-biting one-
wicket win over Sri Lanka in the Super Eight match at the Guyana
National stadium here on Wednesday.


"Peterson has been officially reprimanded for breaching the
International Cricket Council Code of Conduct during the World
Cup match against Sri Lanka," the ICC said in a statement.


Peterson, playing in his 34th one-day international, was
wicketless in his five overs in Sri Lanka's 209 all out.


He went to the crease after Sri Lanka paceman Lasith Malinga took
four wickets off as many balls to set up an intriguing finish.


Peterson survied four deliveries off Malinga and in his next over
hit the winning boundary.


In celebration, the South African demolished the stumps at the
striker's end.


"Peterson immediately pleaded guilty to abuse of cricket
equipment fixtures and fittings in a hearing the following day
after play concluded in Georgetown on Wednesday," said ICC.


"Peterson admitted to have breached 1.2 of the ICC Code which
relates to actions outside the course of normal cricket such as
hitting or kicking the wickets.


"Peterson's attitude in response to the breach was appreciated
realising his momentary mistake in the heat of the moment after a
dramatic finish. He apologized to the umpires on the field after
the incident," said match referee Jeff Crowe.


"It was reiterated by the umpires there was no malice in his
actions but there is a responsibility to maintain standards of
behaviour as well as potentially damaging the costly stump
cameras," said Crowe, former New Zealand captain.


"Also, I accepted that it was a momentary mistake in the heat of
the moment, an out-pouring of relief after a tense and dramatic
finish to the match."


"However, all players have a responsibility to maintain the
highest standard of behaviour, no matter what the situation, as
that is part and parcel of being a high-profile sportsman and
hitting the stumps with the bat is not acceptable at any time."

