

A joint Food and Agriculture Organization-World Food Program team
will visit Zimbabwe in the next two months to assess needs in
view of the alarming humanitarian situation there, a UN official
said Thursday.


Rashid Khalikov, a senior official of the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, said the two UN agencies
would undertake the mission in April and May.


He spoke after briefing the UN Security Council on the food
insecurity, high incidence of HIV/AIDS and declining social and
economic services in Zimbabwe.


"The government of Zimbabwe recently announced the year of 2007
as the year of drought, which may increase the vulnerability of
the population," Khalikov told reporters after the closed-door
briefing which was requested by Britain, Zimbabwe's former
colonial ruler.


But the briefing did not touch on the current political unrest in
Zimbabwe.


In calling the briefing two weeks ago, Britain's UN envoy Emyr
Jones Parry said it should focus on the "the appalling events" in
the country, referring to the police beating of opposition chief
Morgan Tsvangirai and Zimbabwe's "economic meltdown."


Inflation in the former British colony stands at 1,730 percent
and unemployment at 80 percent.


But South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the council chair
for this month, insisted Thursday that the Security Council,
which deals with threats to international peace and security, was
not the appropriate forum for a humanitarian briefing on
Zimbabwe.


"The reason for this briefing was a pretext for those countries
that want to express their frustration on the political situation
in Zimbabwe," he told reporters.


"This is unfortunate because the political problems of Zimbabwe
were addressed today in a summit of 14 heads of state in southern
Africa."


Kumalo was referring to a call by southern African leaders
meeting in Tanzania Thursday for the lifting of sanctions against
Zimbabwe, flying in the face of a chorus of Western criticism of
President Robert Mugabe's regime.


Western governments led by Britain and the United States had
hoped for a clear condemnation of Mugabe following his crackdown
on the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), and the
arrest and beating of its leader Tsvangirai.


Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete, who hosted the talks, said
the leaders had called on South African President Thabo Mbeki to
head efforts to promote dialogue between rival political parties
in Zimbabwe.


Menawhile former US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and
Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu said Thursday that world
leaders must speak out to help pull Zimbabwe out of a political
and economic quagmire.


"Given (President Robert) Mugabe's consistent unwillingness to
respect the legitimate complaints of his people, this is not the
time for silent diplomacy," the authors wrote in an opinion piece
in the Washington Post.


"This is the time to speak out."


Mugabe, who has ruled the country since its independence in 1980,
is widely blamed for the political and economic crisis rocking
the southern African country.

