

The virtual elimination of large sharks from coastal waters off
the US eastern seaboard has disturbed the marine ecosystem, and
wiped out one US bay scallop fishery, a study released Thursday
said.


The massive over-fishing of the largest predatory sharks in the
coastal waters of the Atlantic over the past 30-some years has
led to an explosion in the ray, skate and small shark species
that they prey on, with devastating effects for one of the
organisms at the bottom of the food chain.


"Large sharks have been functionally eliminated from the east
coast of the US, meaning that they can no longer perform their
ecosystem role as top predators," said Julia Baum, a doctoral
student at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Canada and co-author
of the paper.


"With fewer sharks around, the species they prey upon -- like
cownose rays -- have increased in numbers, and in turn, hordes of
cownose rays dining on bay scallops have wiped the scallops out."


Several of the larger shark species in the northwest Atlantic are
verging on extinction, according to Baum and colleagues who
analyzed a dozen surveys dating from 1970 up to 2005.


The numbers of scalloped hammerhead and tiger sharks appear to
have declined by more than 97 percent over that period, while
populations of bull, dusky and smooth hammerhead sharks could be
down as much as 99 percent, according to this analysis.


The reasons are not hard to find, say the marine biologists. The
growing demand for shark fins and shark meat, particularly in
Asia, has led to a rapid escalation in shark-fishing.


With the drop in shark population, a dozen species of rays,
skates and small sharks have increased in numbers over the past
16 to 35 years, some of them tenfold, according to other data
reviewed by the marine biologists.


Perhaps the most conspicuous beneficiary of the decline in shark
numbers is the east coast cownose ray, whose numbers have
exploded, rising an average of eight percent a year to bring the
total population to an estimated 40 million, according to the
study in the journal Science.


The rays feed on mollusks including bay scallops, oysters, and
soft-shell and hard clams. The boom in cownose ray numbers has
been nothing short of a disaster for North Carolina's bay scallop
fishermen.


In the early 1980s, researchers who sampled the bay scallops in
the North Carolina sounds before and after the rays' annual
summer feeding session, found their numbers were sufficient to
sustain a commercial fishery and still replenish themselves every
year.


By 1996, the migrating rays were consuming nearly all of the
scallops in the area by early fall, except those protected by
fences the researchers had put up to keep the rays out.


By 2004, the fishermen who harvested the scallops had gone out of
business, ending a century-old North Carolina tradition.


"This is just a small window into this domino effect," said
Charles Peterson, a professor at the Institute of Marine
Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and co-
leader of the study.


The effects on the ecosystem of increases in the other rays,
skate and smaller shark species is still unclear, but there may
be a cascade effect there too, the authors of the paper said.


"Our study provides evidence that the loss of great sharks
triggers changes that cascade throughout coastal food webs," said
Baum.


"Solutions include enhancing protection of great sharks by
substantially reducing fish pressure on all of these species and
enforcing bans on shark finning both in national waters and on
the high seas."

