

Britain said that a UN Security Council statement Thursday
expressing "grave concern" at the continued detention of 15
British sailors by Iran was what it had wanted, despite
suggestions that the statement was a watered-down version of the
original.


The statement also urged Tehran to allow "consular access" to the
14 men and one woman, and said the 15 council members "support
calls, including by the UN Secretary General, for an early
resolution of the problem, including the release" of the 15
detained Britons.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
spokeswoman for the British foreign ministry told AFP.


"It's the text we've been working for."


The spokeswoman declined to comment on whether or not the final
draft was a weaker version of the statement proposed by Britain,
saying: "I can't go into detail on the negotiations themselves."


"It was unanimous agreement to this text. We wanted a UN Security
Council statement, we've got unanimous agreement, and we now need
to move forward to get our 15 people released as soon as
possible."


"Our position is clear, we want the immediate release of our
personnel."


The bland statement, which avoided the issue of whether the
incident took place in Iranian or Iraqi waters, was agreed after
more than four hours of frantic bargaining.


Earlier a Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said Russia opposed a British call for the immediate release of
15 British sailors.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters but Britain says
they were picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


Iran insists that the British sailors crossed into Iranian waters
and its foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said Thursday that
London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial waters
if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.

