

A former senior aide on Thursday directly implicated embattled US
Attorney General Alberto Gonzales in the controversial sackings
of eight prosecutors, but denied there was any wrong-doing.


"I don't think the attorney general's statement that he was not
involved in any discussions about US attorney removals is
accurate," Gonzales's former right- hand man, Kyle Sampson, told
US lawmakers.


"I remember discussing with him this process of asking certain US
attorneys to resign. And I believe that he was present at the
meeting on November 27."


Gonzales has faced a chorus of calls to resign over last year's
dismissals, which some have charged were politically motivated.


But Sampson, who stepped down from his post as chief of staff in
the Justice Department earlier this month, defended the
dismissals as part of the president's remit.


"The decisions to seek the resignations of a handful of US
attorneys were properly made, but poorly explained," he told the
Senate Judiciary Committee.


"As presidential appointees, US attorneys serve at the 'pleasure
of the president' and may be asked to resign for almost any
reason with no public or private explanation," he said.


Lawmakers want to shed light on why the eight US attorneys --
powerful local and regional prosecutors appointed by the
president -- were fired, even as several of them were in the
middle of sensitive corruption investigations.


"The purpose of today's hearing is not to find a smoking gun. The
purpose is to build a factual base and to continue to figure out
what went on," said Democratic Senator Charles Schumer.


Eyebrows were raised over Gonzales's role in the affair this week
when another top aide, Monica Goodling, said she would refuse to
testify fearing prosecution.


Gonzales told reporters earlier this month that the dismissals
were an "effort that was led by Mr. Sampson," and that they
"never had a discussion about where things stood."


Sampson, testifying under oath, said that there was a limited
category of improper reasons for firing a prosecutor including
"an effort to interfere with or influence the investigation or
prosecution of a particular case for political or partisan
advantage."


"To my knowledge nothing of the sort occurred here."

