

The Dubai World Cup, run under floodlights at Nad Al Sheba on
Saturday, is being presented this year as a virtual match between
Discreet Cat and Invasor.


This pair are joined by five other rivals in the pursuit of the
six million dollar prize, with the winner set to bag 3.6m dollars
- that works out at a not- to-be sniffed at 30,000 dollars a
second.


Godolphin, whose mastermind Sheikh Mohammed claimed victory in
last year's edition with the ill-fated Electrocutionist, is
entertaining high hopes of a follow up with Discreet Cat.


There's been nothing discreet about the racing ability of Frankie
Dettori's mount as the four-year-old is vying here to stretch his
unbeaten run to seven in the race his owner devised to put Dubai
on the world racing map.


The joint-top rated three-year-old of 2006 has already sprung a
psychological advantage over his arch rival Invasor having
defeated the American challenger fair and square in the UAE Derby
at this year's meeting 12 months ago.


He was last seen racing in anger when landing the Grade One Cigar
Mile - named after a former World Cup winner - at Aqueduct last
season, and pleased connections in his final serious work out
having missed his prep race.


The one conundrum for his supporters is stamina.


Godolphin racing manager Simon Crisford said: "It's the biggest
race of his life and he has never been further than a mile and an
eighth but he has given the impression that if he relaxes in the
early stages he will stay well."


Crisford added: "He had to miss his prep race, his temperature
was only marginally high but we played it safety first. It was
inconvenient but when we worked him it was impressive."


Dettori, trying for his fourth World Cup, admitted to pre-night
nerves, the flamboyant Italian venturing: "Discreet Cat still has
to prove himself in the most valuable race in the world and I'll
answer that question on Saturday."


Discreet Cat will start hard against the rails in stall one with
Invasor, who just shades him in the betting with British
bookmakers on the outside in seven.


Invasor has made serious progress since finishing seven lengths
fourth to Discreet Cat here last year, trainer Kiaran
McLoughlin's star going on to win five consecutive races,
including the Breeders' Cup Classic.


Reflecting on how the Argentinian-bred five-year-old's developed
since his last visit to Dubai Trish McLaughlin, the trainer's
assistant, said: "He's about double the size he was last year!


"He shipped over awesome. He's such a well travelled horse and
he's so classy and so laid back, nothing seems to bother him.'


Matches in racing have a habit of evaporating like a mirage in
the desert and if anyone is going to spoil this pair's party it
could be fellow American vistor Premium Tap, third to Invasor in
the Classic, or even Kandidate.


Britain's sole contender, rated a 25-1 outsider in ante-post
lists, received an unexpected vote of confidence from Sheikh
Hamdan Al Maktoum - the owner of Invasor.


"Kandidate just cannot be ignored. If Kandidate is able to poach
a three length lead turning for home he will be very hard to
catch," he said recalling how Clive Brittain's charge had done
just that when landing his prep in February.


Others in the hunt to strike gold at Dubai's flagship festival
are Japan's Vermilion, Bullish Luck, Forty Licks while Storm
Mayor from Argentina is a late non-runner.

