

Government troops have ransacked the party offices of Congolese
opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba, which also host his radio
and televisions stations, Bemba's supporters said Thursday.


Soldiers had carried off furniture from the building, said local
residents and traders. It houses both the offices of Bemba's
Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC) and three radio and
television stations he owns.


About ten members of the Republican Guard stationed outside the
city centre premises Thursday barred entry to an AFP journalist.


MLC activists and employees of Bemba's stations told AFP they too
had been prevented from entering.


Canal Congo TV (CCTV), Canal Kin TV (CKTV) and Radio Liberte
Kinshasa (Ralik) have been off air since just before last week's
clashes between government troops and Bemba's militia.


Troops moved into the building after the fighting last Thurday
and Friday in Kinshasa, when 2,000 government troops overcame 700
fighters loyal to Bemba.


"We are living in hiding," Maurice Bokoko, the head of CCTV and
Radio Ralik, told AFP.


"We have been told our offices have been pillaged and ransacked
by the soldiers, but we can't go to check ourselves.


"Our stations were taken off the air on Wednesday, March 21, the
day before the fighting," he added.


"Fortunately the staff were not on the premises when the shooting
started."


Bokoko said they would be meeting the military prosecutor on
Friday to get access to the building, assess the damage and file
a complaint.


The French media rights group Reporters without Borders (RSF)
meanwhile expressed concern Thursday about the fate of ten of the
63 employees at Bemba's stations.


An RSF statement said they had been in hiding since the
government cut the stations' signals last week after one station
broadcast an interview with Bemba in which he accused the army
high command of corruption.


Bemba had claimed in a Lingala-language interview, the language
used in western DRC, that the army high command was skimming off
500 million Congolese francs (665,000 euros, 885,000 dollars)
from the military payroll every month.


Bemba's radio and TV stations employ 63 journalists, technicians
and administrative staff.


Bemba himself remains at the South African embassy, where he took
refuge when last week's fighting started.


Talks are underway with the DRC government to allow the ex-rebel
leader and former vice president fly out to Portugal for
treatment to an old leg injury.


Last week's violence broke after Bemba refused to allow his
militia to be integrated into the army.


Late Wednesday he said that his forces were beginning to join the
regular army, on his orders.


On Tuesday, 14 EU ambassadors condemned the government's
excessive use of force in the fighting, which according to their
estimates killed between 200 and 500 people, many of them
civilians.

