

The UN Security Council on Thursday


adopted a watered-down statement expressing "grave concern" at
the detention of 15 British crew members by Iran but stopped well
short of a Britain's call to criticize Tehran.


The 15-member council capped a day of hectic consultations by
turning back Britain's request for a call for the immediate
liberation of its sailors and marines because of strong
opposition from Russia.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the current council
chair, read a non- binding statement expressing "grave concern at
the capture and continued detention" of the Britons, while
calling on Tehran to allow "consular access" to them.


Britain had sought a tougher stance against the Iranians, who
seized the British sailors and marines last Friday in two boats
during what London claims were operations in Iraqi waters.


But a Western diplomat quoted Russian ambassador Vitaly Churkin
as telling the council during the closed-door consultations that
Moscow would not back Britain's call for UN support.


"We will not be able to accept a call for the immediate release
of the 15 UK naval personnel," Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
said during the closed-door consultations, according to the
diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity.


The original British draft circulated Wednesday would have the
Security Council "deplore the continuing detention by the
Government of Iran of 15 UK naval personnel" and back "calls for
(their) immediate release".


It would note that "the UK personnel were operating in Iraqi
waters as part of the Multinational Force-Iraq under a mandate
from the Security Council under Resolution 1723 (2006) and at the
request of the government of Iraq."


But the final statement adopted avoided the issue of whether the
incident took place in Iranian or Iraqi waters.


Earlier, Britain's UN envoy Emyr Jones Parry told reporters that
Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two British boats
were changed by Iran to make it appear they were in Iranian
waters.


"It was only when we point out that the detention (of the 15
British sailors and marines) was inappropriate and in our view
unlawful that the coordinates were then changed by the Iranian
government to be coordinates within Iranian waters," Jones Parry
said.


"Our position has been consistent for six days. We want these
guys all released immediately. We think the detention was
inappropriate and I hope I can get the Security Council to rally
to that simple proposition," the British envoy said.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters.


But Britain says they were picked up while on a routine patrol in
Iraqi waters.


Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said Thursday that
London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial waters
if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.


"They (British leaders) must accept that this violation took
place, that would help to resolve the affair," Mottaki told
Iranian state television.


Iran also withdrew an offer to free the only female British
detainee.


Tehran released a second letter apparently written by the
captured woman, 26 -year-old Faye Turney, in which she suggested
it was time for Britain to withdraw its troops from Iraq.


Meanwhile, world oil prices soared to six-month highs on the
spike in tension.


The head of Iran's supreme national security council, Ali
Larijani, earlier said Turney would not be released because of
Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


Iran did say it would consider a Turkish request to free Turney
and to allow the Turkish ambassador to visit the eight detained
British sailors and seven marines.


London announced on Wednesday that it was freezing official
contacts with Tehran because of the detentions.

