

Dejected West Indies captain Brian Lara admitted on Thursday that
his side need to win all four of their remaining Super Eights
games if they are to salvage their World Cup dream.


The hosts slumped to a second defeat in two days when New Zealand
coasted to a seven-wicket win at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium,
adding to the West Indies' problems after their 103-run defeat to
Australia on Wednesday.


Now Lara's side will have to defeat Sri Lanka, South Africa,
Bangladesh and England if they are to have any hope of making the
semi-finals.


"We will have to win those four," said Lara.


"It was always going to be a luxury to lose your first two
matches in the Super Eights. We didn't want to do that first up.


"Now we are down to the fighting part of the tournament. There
are four games left and we need to win them all if we are to
qualify."


The West Indies were put in by New Zealand and were skittled out
for just 177 in the 45th over with Jacob Oram, Shane Bond and
Daniel Vettori all claiming three wickets.


Opener Chris Gayle top-scored with 44 while Lara hit 37.


Scott Styris, with an unbeaten 80, guided the Black Caps to
victory and into second place in the Super Eights table.


They and Australia both have four points each.


"Losing the toss played a small part but we were 60-1 after 15-16
overs and we were in a strong position," added Lara.


"But we lost some quick wickets which set us back again. It
looked like a 250-plus track.


"We got some early wickets (New Zealand were 36-2 at one stage)
but when you are defending 177 you need to get 10 wickets to win
the match."


New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming admitted it was a good toss
to win and that his bowlers laid the foundation for victory.


"The opening bowlers created a lot of pressure and Jacob took the
wickets that they could easily have had," said Fleming who did
his part when the Kiwis batted with a gritty 45.


"We took wickets at key times and kept them to a score which was
below par.


"Then we knew that if we batted out the overs we would win. We
were pretty conservative because we knew that after (main
bowlers) Daren Powell and Corey Colleymore, the West Indies
didn't have a lot of resources."


New Zealand's next match is against Bangladesh here on Monday but
the Black Caps are aware of the danger posed by the Asian side
who beat them in a pre- tournament warm-up match.

