

Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two British boats
seized with 15 sailors were changed by Iran to make it appear
they were in Iranian waters, Britain's UN envoy said Thursday.


"It was only when we point out that the detention (of the 15
British sailors and marines) was inappropriate and in our view
unlawful that the coordinates were then changed by the Iranian
government to be coordinates within Iranian waters," British
Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said.


He told reporters that he would be pressing the UN Security
Council to adopt later in the day a "press statement which will
make clear the support of the council for the release of the
people who in the view of British government have been wrongfully
detained."


He expressed the hope that the 15 Britons, including a woman
sailor, would be released "immediately."


"Our position has been consistent for six days. We want these
guys all released immediately. We think the detention was
inappropriate and I hope I can get the Security Council to rally
to that simple proposition," the British envoy said.


The proposed British-drafted statement would have the Security
Council "deplore the continuing detention by the Government of
Iran of 15 UK naval personnel" and back "calls for (their)
immediate release".


It would note that "the UK personnel were operating in Iraqi
waters as part of the multinational Force-Iraq under a mandate
from the Security Council under resolution 1723 (2006) and at the
request of the government of Iraq."


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters but Britain says
they were picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


On Thursday, Iran said the 15 British sailors had entered its
waters at six different points before they were arrested,
according to the official IRNA news agency reported.


"These 15 British troops in two boats... had entered and stayed
in Iran's territorial waters at six points before they were
arrested by the patrols," IRNA quoted an unnamed navy official as
saying.


"The coast guards have documented and filmed British forces
violating international law," the Iranian official said. "Their
entry and stay in our waters is certain according to the
information recorded on the British sailors' GPS."


Later on Thursday an Iranian army commander appeared on state TV
using maritime charts and a GPS "seized from the British
sailors".


"The information recorded on the GPS shows the sailors were
arrested in Iranian waters and that they had entered six times,"
said General Setareh, commander of coastal border patrols in
Arvand -- Iranian name for the Shatt al-Arab waterway between
Iran and Iraq where the sailors were arrested.


And Iran demanded an apology from London over the incident.


"The logical solution to resolving this affair is for the British
authorities to accept the reality, present their apologies to the
great Iranian people," General Alireza Afshar, spokesman for the
head of Iran's armed forces, was quoted as saying by the semi-
official Mehr news agency.


He said Britain also needed to "admit the truth and make a
commitment not to violate our waters again."

