

British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned Iran Thursday there was
a "whole series of measures" that could be taken to pressure the
Islamic republic to hand over 15 navy detainees.


He also called the broadcast of footage of a female detainee on
Iranian television a "disgrace."


"What we have to do in a very firm way, is step up the pressure,"
he told ITV television, as British sought agreement on a United
Nations Security Council statement about the spat.


"The important thing is we just keep making it very, very clear
to the Iranian government it is not a situation that will be
relieved by anything but the unconditional release of all our
people," Blair said.


"There's no alternative but to release them and the longer it
goes on, the more the pressure will be stepped up.


"I think we should take this a day at a time at the moment.


"The next step is the UN statement. There's a whole series of
measures we can take," he added, giving no further details.


Asked about footage aired by Iranian television Wednesday showing
the sole female detainee, 26-year-old Faye Turney, Blair said: "I
just think it's completely wrong, a disgrace actually, when
people are used in that way.


"That's contrary to all international laws and conventions, and
is not going to make any difference to us. We need all 15
released because they were doing their job under a UN mandate.


"There is no justification whatsoever for taking them in that
way."


He was speaking as Britain presented a draft statement for debate
at the UN Security Council in New York, calling for the
"immediate release" of the detainees.


"We are going to have to step up pressure not just with them in
the UN and the European Union, but see what further measures are
necessary to get them to understand it's not merely wrong but
only going to result in further tension so it's sensible to
resolve it now.


"I'm not interested in confrontation for its own sake, the most
important thing is to get 15 personnel back safe and sound."

