

England captain Michael Vaughan has told his team not to lower
their guard when they take on debutants Ireland in their opening
World Cup Super Eights match here on Friday.


England advanced to the second round without any points after
losing to New Zealand in their first group match and Vaughan said
it was now crucial to get a win early.


"Because we didn't bring points with us, we know we have to get
points on the board quickly. If we can get a decent performance,
we know we should be good enough to get two points," Vaughan told
reporters here on Thursday.


"We have looked at footage of the way they (Ireland) have been
playing. We try to prepare exactly the same as we do against
Australia. We know the Super Eights are going to be very, very
close."


Ireland pulled off the biggest surprise of the tournament when
they whipped former champions Pakistan in a group game and also
tied their match against Zimbabwe. Their only loss came against
the West Indies.


"We had a decent game against them last summer (England won by 38
runs in Belfast). They look a very organised team with some good
players and we know if we don't get our game in order, Ireland
could certainly cause a shock," said the England captain.


"We are just trying to focus on putting in a decent performance.
It's a big game for us to try and get two points on the board and
try and catch some teams up.


"Ireland deserve to be in the Super Eights because they have
qualified. So, we are taking them just as the other nations we
are playing, like Australia and South Africa."


When asked whether there would be pressure on England against a
non-Test-playing team, Vaughan said: "We are just concentrating
on getting our performance to a decent level. We have to make
sure we are in good shape and in good form going into the game."


England may not have a big-hitter at the top in the ongoing
tournament, but Vaughan said he was happy with his team's
performances in the first three matches.


"We just try to play what we feel our strengths are. We naturally
don't have a (Sanath) Jayasuriya or (Adam) Gilchrist or (Matthew)
Hayden, but at the moment we are quite happy with the way we are
playing," he said.


"We have not been bogged down as yet in the first 15-20 overs. We
have played our natural cricket and we have done okay.


"Later on in the tournament, if we feel there is an option for
change and we need to use the first 20 overs more, there are
players in our team who we feel could do that."


The England captain said he believed the World Cup was still open
despite defending champions Australia's impressive victories in
four matches, three in the group and one in the Super Eights.


"I still think the World Cup is open, but the Australians are
looking stronger. They have played some good games and beaten a
good team in South Africa and the hosts the other day," said
Vaughan.


"So they are in good form but as soon as you get to the semi-
finals, anything can happen. That's what we are looking to do --
looking to play well in the Super Eights and give ourselves a
chance to play in the semi-finals."

