

Britain on Thursday failed to secure strong UN Security Council
support for its tug-of-war with Iran over the capture and
continued detention of 15 British naval personnel by Tehran.


The 15-member body adopted a watered-down statement expressing
"grave concern" at the detention of 15 British sailors and
marines but stopped well short of London's call for censuring
Tehran.


It capped a day of hectic consultations by turning back London's
request for a call for the immediate release of its nationals
because of strong opposition from Russia.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the current council
chair, read a non- binding statement expressing "grave concern at
the capture and continued detention" of the Britons, while
calling on Tehran to allow "consular access" to them.


Britain had sought a tougher stance against the Iranians, who
seized the 15 Britons, including a female sailor, last Friday in
two boats during what London claims were anti-smuggling
operations in Iraqi waters.


But a Western diplomat quoted Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
as telling the council during the closed-door consultations that
Moscow would not back Britain's call for UN support.


"We will not be able to accept a call for the immediate release
of the 15 UK naval personnel," Churkin said, according to the
diplomat, who spoke on condition of anonymity.


Several diplomats said Russia, backed by some other council
members such as Indonesia, was keen to avoid giving the
impression that the council was taking sides in what is seen as a
bilateral dispute, particularly on the issue of exactly where the
15 Britons were seized.


The British foreign ministry refused to discuss the strength of
the adopted text.


"The statement that was agreed, it's a text which secured
unanimous agreement, and its a clear statement of the members of
the Security Council representing the international community," a
spokeswoman for the British foreign ministry told AFP.


The spokeswoman declined to comment on whether the final draft
was a weaker version of the statement proposed by Britain,
saying: "I can't go into detail on the negotiations themselves."


"We now need to move forward to get our 15 people released as
soon as possible."


The original British draft circulated Wednesday would have had
the Security Council "deplore the continuing detention by the
Government of Iran of 15 UK naval personnel" and back "calls for
(their) immediate release".


It noted that "the UK personnel were operating in Iraqi waters as
part of the Multinational Force-Iraq under a mandate from the
Security Council under Resolution 1723 (2006) and at the request
of the government of Iraq."


The United States earlier reiterated its strong backing for its
close British ally.


"The British government, I think, has gone out and demonstrated
that these people were in international waters," US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice said in an interview with Fox television
network.


"I think they need to be released and the international community
needs to say to Iran that they need to be released and that is
what we're doing. We're trying to do anything that we can with
other parties to help the British," she added.


Earlier, Britain's UN envoy Emyr Jones Parry told reporters that
Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two British boats
were changed by Iran to make it appear they were in Iranian
waters.


"It was only when we point out that the detention was
inappropriate and in our view unlawful that the coordinates were
then changed by the Iranian government to be coordinates within
Iranian waters," Jones Parry said.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters.


But Britain says they were picked up while on a routine patrol in
Iraqi waters.


Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki said Thursday that
London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial waters
if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.


Meanwhile, world oil prices soared to six-month highs on the
spike in tension.


London announced on Wednesday that it was freezing official
contacts with Tehran because of the detentions.

