

The United States Thursday honored the Tuskegee Airmen, some 300
black pilots who made their proud mark flying fighters over
Europe in World War II, six decades after the war's end.


The group was presented the Congressional Gold Medal, Congress's
foremost award for civilians, honoring one of the war's most
distinguished records in air combat.


The pilots overcame racial prejudice to become the first African-
Americans to be permitted to fly in the war.


"Still our job is not complete. Prejudice and segregation still
exist worldwide," said retired pilot George Hickman, among the
200-plus airmen on hand.


"In the deep south of the US, hatred was rife. We were not
treated like humans. Prisoners of war were treated better than
us," he recalled.


Formed in 1941 in Tuskegee, Alabama, as an exclusively black unit
of the US Army Air Corps, the Tuskegee Airmen provided 450 pilots
to the war, where they flew over Germany, France, Italy and
Northern Africa escorting allied bombers to their targets.


Sixty-six airmen died in combat, but in a little matched record
for the war, nearly all of the bombers they protected got
through.


"Their mission was to escort the bombers and their reputation was
that they were very good at it," said Denis Mills, vice president
of the Tuskegee Airmen Inc., an organization to honor and
remember the group.


"There were very few bombers lost," he recalled to AFP.


Also known as the "Red Tail Angels" because their propellers and
tails were painted red, the Tuskegee pilots overcame widespread
racial prejudice and segregation in US society to become one of
the most respected units in the European air war.


Before they were formed, officially as the 332d Fighter Group of
the Army Air Corps, blacks were not allowed to fly aircraft in
the US military.


Once given the chance, they struggled not only to prove
themselves as pilots but also as equals in the segregated
military.


"It was very challenging," said Mills.


"It's one thing to be able to be a pilot in wartime, when you are
fighting two fronts: you are fighting the enemy on one hand and
your own country is against you, hoping to see you fail."


"It makes it all the more outstanding... It's a story of
overcoming that kind of adversity."


The Congressional Gold Medal recognizes "their sacrifices and
remarkable combat record during the war and during this racial
adversity," Mills said.


It has been bestowed upon national heroes like first president
George Washington, anti-segregation icon Rosa Parks, Mother
Teresa, former secretary of state Colin Powell and actor John
Wayne.


Most of the roughly 385 surviving Tuskegee airmen -- a total of
994 black pilots were trained for the unit -- are in their 80s.


"This is their last hurrah, the last big recognition for them.
They are very excited about it. There is not a single Tuskegee
Airman who didn't want to come and be a part of this," Mills
said.


Added ex-pilot Claude Platte: "It's a great time. It's more than
60 years overdue."


The unit lasted through the war and after, until president Harry
Truman in 1948 ordered the integration of the US military and
they were mixed into other units.


Hickman reflected on the dramatic turn his youth took when he
took to the skies.


"It was dangerous, but it was just wonderful," he recalled. "Is
there anything better in the world for a 19-year-old boy to sit
in a plane by himself, slow- rolling and snap-rolling, feeling he
is in control of the world?"

