

Doctors said Thursday they were concerned football legend Diego
Maradona, who was rushed to hospital a day earlier and
stabilized, may have traded cocaine addition for alcohol abuse.


The 46-year-old former football icon is being treated at Guemes
Hospital in Buenos Aires, where he was taken against his will
late Wednesday.


Guemes Hospital director Hector Pezzella said Maradona did not
currently have acute heart trouble or other system failure, that
he was stable, and his life was not in danger.


Voted one of the best players of the 20th century and venerated
like a god in Argentina, Maradona has a history of drug addiction
and was hospitalized in 2000 and 2004 for cocaine overdoses.


While both Pezzella and Maradona's personal physician Alfredo
Cahe denied Maradona's treatment was related to use of any
illegal drugs, they said it was likely he had replaced a
dependency on cocaine with alcohol.


Though there was no new heart trouble, Pezzella said, "alcohol
can contribute to (system) imbalances, especially when excess is
involved. In this case, there was (excess). There were several
(medical) imbalances, and that is what (Maradona) came to get
back in order."


Pezzella also said Maradona was being treated with sedatives
"because that is part of the tactics and (treatment) regime for
patients (...) so they do not develop withdrawal symptoms."


Argentine television said Maradona was rushed to the hospital
after feeling ill at his parents' house.


His ex-wife, daughters and Cahe later arrived at the hospital,
and police threw up a line outside to hold back fans and well-
wishers.


Cahe later emerged to tell reporters that Maradona's life was not
in danger.


"He didn't have a very consistent lifestyle, in his eating
habits, his drinking and the amount of cigars he smoked," Cahe
said.


"This, in addition to stress, was a logical reason to hospitalize
him, and against his will," Cahe said.


The "stress" Cahe mentioned may well be linked to the star's
legal problems -- in early March Argentina's central bank began
collecting information about Maradona's bank accounts, suggesting
the football great was under investigation for tax evasion.


Born October 30, 1960 just outside Buenos Aires, Maradona shares
the FIFA title of the 20th century's best player with Brazil's
Pele after a stellar career with Boca Juniors, Barcelona and
Napoli.


He scored 50 goals in 115 games for Argentina during his 21 years
as a football star. He proved his genius in the 1986 World Cup
finals in Mexico, with a series of brilliant displays that led
Argentina to the title.


But like much of his career, even that star turn was dogged by
controversy.


His first goal was the notorious "Hand of God" effort, which saw
Maradona fist the ball over England goalkeeper Peter Shilton.


His second goal in that match, however, has been called one of
the most brilliant ever in the game.


Since Maradona's retirement at 37, scandals have continued to
surround him, including marital infidelity and drugs.


In 2005 he found a new and successful career in television,
hosting a widely watched show called "The Night of 10," referring
to his iconic Argentina jersey number.


In 2005 he underwent gastric bypass surgery in Colombia.


Newspaper photographs early this month appeared to show he had
regained many of the 50 kilograms (110 pounds) lost in his crash
weight-loss treatment. Another showed him in a Buenos Aires
nightclub with an injured nose after falling off a chair.

