

The United States has sought the help of southern African
countries to reign in Zimbabwe's leader Robert Mugabe, blamed for
his country's political and economic crisis.


"We have reached out via our embassies in each of the SADC
countries to encourage them to do everything they possibly can to
help encourage a change in behaviour in Zimbabwe," State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"It's a sad case, its a tragic case and unfortunately, the
Zimbabwean people that are bearing the brunt of the misguided
policies of the regime of Robert Mugabe -- whether it's a
decrease in political and human rights or whether it's taking the
country down the pathway to economic ruin," he told reporters.


McCormack spoke as leaders of the 14-member Southern African
Development Community (SADC) held an emergency summit in Tanzania
on Friday focused on Zimbabwe.


But host Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete said the meeting was
not aimed at pressuring Mugabe.


Meanwhile a top Zimbabwean official defied Western criticism of
its embattled president and said it was expecting economic help
from the southern African leaders meeting.


Asked what the United States wants from the southern African
leaders, McCormack said, "What we want is clear indication that
the behavior in Zimbabwe is unacceptable."


But he conceded that there was "some reluctance on the part of
some members of SADC at this point to really press Robert Mugabe
and his regime.


"So we'll see what steps they decide to take," he said.


McCormack said the United States would not dictate to the
southern African countries exactly what steps to take, "whether
it's rhetorical and that's backed up by other actions or whether
it's as dramatic as imposing sanctions."


Western countries have already slapped a broad array of sanctions
on Mugabe's regime. The arrest and beating of opposition leader
Morgan Tsvangirai earlier this month, prompted outcry around the
world.


"It's really hard to see at this point what other diplomatic
leverages that we might do acting in concert with others,"
Mccormack said.


"Frankly probably that is the best way to do this, to generate
international pressure on allies of this regime to change their
behavior," he said.

