

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday that trials of
war on terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba lack international
credibility because of the taint of past treatment of detainees.


But Gates said "hard core" detainees who have vowed to attack the
United States should never be released and he suggested that the
Congress and administration consider passing laws to deal with
problem of their long term detention.


"My own view is that because of things that happened earlier at
Guantanamo there is a taint about it," Gates said.


He said he had pressed to get trials moved to the United States
"because I felt that no matter how transparent, no matter how
open the trials, if they took place in Guantanamo in the
international community they would lack credibility."


Gates comments in testimony before a House appropriations
subcommittee come as the Pentagon is reviving trials of war on
terror suspects by special military commissions at Guantanamo.


In the first such case under a new law authorizing the military
trials, Australian David Hicks pleaded guilty this week to a
charge of material support for terrorism.


Prosecutors have pressed charges against two other detainees at
Guantanamo, but they have not been referred to trial yet by the
Pentagon official who oversees the commissions.


Gates said he favored the closure of Guantanamo when he became
defense secretary in December.


"The reality is there are people at Guantanamo we would like to
turn back to their home countries, and their home countries won't
take them," he said.


"There are also some number of people at Guantanamo that frankly,
based on their own confession, should never be released," he
said.


"I don't know if the military prison system provides the capacity
to keep them, but I know that there are some people down there
who if we release them have made very clear they will come back
and attack this country," he said.


Gates said there were less than a 100 "hard core" prisoners among
the 385 now being held at Guantanamo.


What to do with them over the long term is "an area where there
needs to be some dialogue between the Congress and the
administration," he said.


"Is there a way statutorially to address the concerns about some
of these people who really need to be incarcerated forever, but
doesn't get them involved in a legal system where there is the
potential of them being released?" he asked.


"Frankly, I just don't know the answer to that," he said.


Democrats have pressed for action on Guantanamo's future and some
have proposed moving detainees to US military prisons in the
United States.


"Determining where to lock up these hard-core detainees over the
long-term, so as to ensure that they cannot return to the
battlefield, is the question," said Representative Ike Skelton.


Skelton, the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, also
called for a swift Supreme Court review of the new law
authorizing the military trials to ensure that future convictions
are iron clad.


"The bottom line is that we must prosecute those who are
terrorists with the full force of the law, but we must also make
sure that the convictions stick," he said. "Certainty of
convictions must go hand in hand with tough prosecutions."

