

Brian O'Driscoll had to watch from the stands as France wrecked
Ireland's ambitions of winning the Six Nations Grand Slam and on
Saturday he will be hoping he does not suffer the same sensation
as his Leinster side take on English giants Wasps in the European
Cup quarter-finals.


It will be left to the skills of his Ireland and provincial
centre partner Gordon D'Arcy - along with the battering ram runs
of Shane Horgan - to produce the required inspiration for
Leinster if they are to improve on the record of away teams in
the quarter-finals.


Just 10 have prevailed in the 40 European Cup quarter-finals that
have taken place and indeed champions Munster also face a tough
away trip to Llanelli where one of Ireland's Triple Crown heros
Simon Easterby awaits them on Friday.


However, Leinster - who incredibly have never even reached the
final despite having the majority of the Irish backline - have
tried their best to dismiss that the loss of the talismanic
O'Driscoll will be impossible to overcome.


"We are not just a one man team," commented lock Malcolm O'Kelly.


"We have strength in depth and our backs are among the strongest
in club rugby.


"Being away can also be a strength and we are as determined as
ever to land the European Cup for the first time."


O'Kelly's compatriot Eoin Reddan will be on the opposing side on
Saturday and he refused to be lulled into a false sense of
security that Wasps were unbeatable at home.


"Playing at home is not an advantage against Leinster," said
Reddan, whose view is supported by the fact that Leinster have
won away in the past two seasons at Glasgow, Bath, Toulouse and
Agen.


Two sides who will both be playing away from home are last year's
beaten finalists Biarritz and 2000 champions Northampton as they
meet up in the Spanish town of San Sebastian.


Biarritz have not been having the best of seasons this term -
they are presently fifth - but that is nothing in comparison to
Northampton who are bottom of the English Premiership.


However Biarritz scrum-half Dimitri Yachvili refuses to take them
lightly, despite their recent poor run.


"If there is one thing we should not do it is to take them
(Northampton) lightly," said Yachvili, who is fighting to keep
his place in the French squad after an under-par performance in
France's defeat by England in the Six Nations which effectively
cost them the Grand Slam.


"I know we have been to the summit and failed but look at
Munster, they had as well and then they finally won last time."


Sunday's other quarter-final sees the eighth meeting in the
competition between Leicester and Stade Francais with the French
club holding a 4-3 win advantage.


However that means nothing to Stade's flamboyant owner Max
Guazzini as his side have failed to win the ultimate prize and
were beaten by Leicester in the final in 2001 at Parc des Princes
- just a stone's throw from their home Stade Jean Bouin.


Amazingly Leicester are without a trophy for four years but with
Stade missing three integral players through injury - captain
David Auradou, France's most capped prop Sylvain Marconnet and
hooker Dimitri Szarzewski - and Mauro Bergamasco suspended the
'Tigers' have a real chance of edging nearer the final.


Their Australian coach Pat Howard - a member of the side that
beat Stade in the 2001 final - insists, however, that even a
weakened Stade side represents a huge challenge.


"We had to produce a fantastic effort last season to beat them
here (they overturned a 10 point deficit to win 29-22) and
they've won here before so they will not be intimidated," said
Howard, who is leaving at the end of the season to look after his
family's business in Australia.


"The team that turns up physical, fresh and enthusiastic is going
to be the winner on the day."


Fixtures


Friday


Llanelli (WAL) v Munster (IRL)


Saturday:


Wasps (ENG) v Leinster (IRL)


Sunday:


Biarritz (FRA) v Northampton (ENG)


Leicester (ENG) v Stade Francais (FRA)

