

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday that trials of
war on terror suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba lack international
credibility because of the taint of past treatment of detainees.


But Gates said some detainees who have vowed to attack the United
States should never be released and he suggested that the
Congress and administration consider passing laws to deal with
problem of their long term detention.


"My own view is that because of things that happened earlier at
Guantanamo there is a taint about it," Gates said.


He said he had pressed to get trials moved to the United States
"because I felt that no matter how transparent, no matter how
open the trials, if they took place in Guantanamo in the
international community they would lack credibility."


Gates comments in testimony before a House appropriations
subcommittee come as the Pentagon is reviving trials of war on
terror suspects by special military commissions at Guantanamo.


In the first such case under a new law authorizing the military
trials, Australian David Hicks pleaded guilty this week to a
charge of material support for terrorism.


Prosecutors have pressed charges against two other detainees at
Guantanamo, but they have not been referred to trial yet by the
Pentagon official who oversees the commissions.


Gates said he favored the closure of Guantanamo when he became
defense secretary in December.


"The reality is there are people at Guantanamo we would like to
turn back to their home countries, and their home countries won't
take them," he said.


"There are also some number of people at Guantanamo that frankly,
based on their own confession, should never be released," he
said.


"I don't know if the military prison system provides the capacity
to keep them, but I know that there are some people down there
who if we release them have made very clear they will come back
and attack this country," he said.


How to deal with them over the long term may require "some sort
of a statutory approach," he said.

