

Spain's interior ministry said Thursday it had uncovered bomb-
making materials during an operation in the north of the country
targeting alleged Basque separatists.


The operation began Wednesday when eight people were arrested.
More arrests were possible, though no one else had been detained
Thursday, an interior ministry official said.


Materials such as nitrate and chlorate that can be used to make
the explosive chloratite were discovered, as well as detonators,
the official said, denying media reports that 30 kilograms (66
pounds) of explosives were found.


Those arrested included Jose Angel Lerin Sanchez, an alleged
member of Basque separatist group ETA who has been on the run
since 2005. He had previously been convicted for attacking a
police officer.


Spanish media reported that the operation aimed to dismantle a
new "commando" unit being set up by Lerin ahead of a planned
attack.


However, secretary of state for security Antonio Camacho told
public radio that the operation uncovered no clues that such an
attack was "imminent."


Lerin was in possession of handguns stolen from a gun
manufacturer in Vauvert, France in October when he was arrested,
several Spanish newspapers reported.


Spain's socialist government has been heavily criticised by
opposition members, who say it is too soft in its dealings with
Basque separatists. Local elections are scheduled for May.


Opposed to any dialogue with ETA, the opposition Popular Party
has warned that Spanish unity is at risk.


An opposition spokesman said Thursday the police operation was
proof that ETA had no plans to disarm.


The armed Basque separatist movement is blamed for 819 deaths in
its 38-year campaign to win independence for the region. Both the
European Union and the State Department in Washington consider
ETA a terrorist organisation.


The group declared a permanent ceasefire a year ago, but it was
shattered by a truck bomb blast on December 30 which killed two
men at Madrid's international airport.


The attack led Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to
break off all contact with the militants.


Batasuna, ETA's banned political wing, announced earlier this
week it was forming a new political party to contest local
elections. Zapatero said, however, the government was unlikely to
allow it to participate because the party appeared illegal.

