

Steve McClaren has suffered unfair "personal vilification and
abuse", according to English FA chief executive Brian Barwick.


England coach McClaren was subjected to vitriolic criticism from
supporters who called for him to be sacked and chanted abusive
taunts throughout the 3-0 Euro 2008 qualifying win over Andorra
in Barcelona on Wednesday.


Barwick was incensed by the personal nature of the abuse and
insisted that, even though fans are entitled to express their
opinions, they must show more respect.


"This past week has shown just how the fortunes of the England
team get people's emotions fired up," Barwick told the FA's
website. "England matters and we wouldn't want or expect it any
other way.


"With that, of course, on occasions comes criticism. Steve
McClaren and his players know that and so do I.


"Everyone has the right to give their opinion, that's the beauty
of the game, and the England fans, the most dedicated group of
supporters in the world, are entitled to air theirs.


"Over the past two matches, they have also loudly expressed their
frustration during parts of the games. I buy that as their right,
no problem.


"I do however feel that there is a line to draw between
acceptable criticism and personal vilification and abuse. One's
fair, the other isn't."


Barwick believes former Middlesbrough boss McClaren can still
lead England to the Euro 2008 finals, despite a series of
lacklustre displays that have left the team three points behind
Group E leaders Croatia.


If England had failed to beat part-timers Andorra it would have
made McClaren's position virtually untenable and he still faces a
massive struggle to convince the fans that he is the right man
for the job.


He has shown increasing signs of cracking under the pressure of
trying to turn England's fortunes around and stormed out of a
post-match press conference on Wednesday after less than two
minutes.


But it was Barwick who appointed McClaren as Sven Goran
Eriksson's successor last year after failing in an attempt to
sign Portugal coach Luiz Felipe Scolari and he is sticking with
his man, although his statement of support for the beleaguered
boss was hardly a resounding vote of confidence.


"I know how hard Steve and everyone connected to the team is
working," Barwick added. "He's a strong man and I know from
speaking with him just how determined he is to deliver success
for England.


"I, like everyone else at the FA, will be doing everything I can
to help Steve and the team win their next Euro qualifier in
Estonia in June.


"We all want to see a successful England team, that goes without
saying. Of course we would like to be top of the group at this
stage, but our fate is still in our hands and that's vitally
important. We all want to see England playing in Austria and
Switzerland next summer."

