

Britain took the escalating crisis with Iran over 15 captured
naval personnel to the UN Security Council Thursday, as Tehran
withdrew an offer to free the only female detainee.


The Iranians also released a second letter apparently written by
the captured woman, 26-year-old Faye Turney, in which she
suggested it was time for Britain to withdraw its troops from
Iraq.


As world oil prices soared to six month highs on the spike in
tension, United Nations Security Council members debated a draft
British statement calling for the group's "immediate release."


The draft "deplored" the continued detention of the British
personnel and noted that they were in Iraqi waters when they were
seized at gunpoint last Friday by the Iranian navy.


The position of the 15 has become a key part of the dispute. Iran
has insisted the British naval personnel entered its waters at
six different points before they were arrested.


In footage on state TV, an Iranian military commander showed
charts and a Global Positioning Service (GPS) monitor that he
said had been seized from the British sailors and that showed the
sailors were detained in Iranian waters.


A British military official had put together a similar
presentation on Wednesday when Britain insisted its 15 personnel
were in Iraqi waters patrolling legally with a UN mandate.


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki demanded on Thursday
that Britain accept a "violation" took place, saying if they did
it would "help to resolve this affair."


The head of Iran's supreme national security council, Ali
Larijani, earlier said Turney would not be released because of
Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


Iran did say it would consider a Turkish request to free Turney
and to allow the Turkish ambassador to visit the eight detained
British sailors and seven marines.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, "while saying that because of the
bad attitude of the British government this dossier has taken a
judicial path, has given the order for the Turkish request to be
examined in a positive way," Iranian state television said.


The channel ran footage of Turney and her 14 male colleagues on
Wednesday, in which she said they had strayed into Iranian
waters.


The film provoked a furious reaction in London. Prime Minister
Tony Blair called the Iranian tactics "a disgrace" while his
government said it suspected Turney had spoken under duress.


Britain's ambassador in Tehran had lodged a formal protest to
Iran over the television footage, the Foreign Office said.


Blair also warned that there were a "whole series of measures"
that could be taken to pressure the Islamic republic to hand over
the sailors.


"What we have to do in a very firm way, is step up the pressure,"
Blair told ITV television.


The release of a second letter by Turney -- a first in which she
apologised for trespassing was released on Wednesday -- was
strongly condemned by both Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett and Blair's office.


"We have not seen this letter, but we have grave concerns about
the circumstances in which it was prepared and issued. This
blatant attempt to use leading seaman Turney for propaganda
purposes is outrageous and cruel," Beckett said.


Larijani, who is also Iran's chief negotiator in its nuclear
dispute with western powers, threatened to pursue a "legal path"
in the crisis which could delay any solution.


"Instead of sending a technical team to examine the problem, they
kicked up a media storm, announced a freeze in relations and
spoke about the Security Council. That will not resolve the
problem. They have miscalculated," said Larijani.


London announced on Wednesday that it was freezing official
contacts with Tehran because of the detentions.


In mounting diplomatic activity, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
spoke to Mottaki about the crisis at an Arab summit in Saudi
Arabia. France summoned Iran's ambassador to Paris to express
support for Britain's case.


But the United States sought to downplay the sense of crisis.


"There is no reason for us to choose a confrontational path now,"
US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns told Congress. "We
believe diplomacy can succeed and we do not believe that conflict
with Iran is inevitable."


The crisis is unfolding against the backdrop of already tense
relations between Tehran and the West over Tehran's nuclear
programme, with the United States claims is a cover for building
atomic weapons.


Two US carrier groups are staging war games in the Gulf near
Iran.


The crisis has had a significant impact on oil prices, which
rebounded above 67 dollars a barrel in London to six-month highs
after Larijani's comments.

