

A rise in tensions with Iran pushed crude oil prices to new 2007
highs Thursday after the Islamic Republic decided against
releasing a female British sailor detained with 14 male
colleagues.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, surged 1.95 dollars to close at 66.03 dollars a
barrel, topping the 66-dollar mark for the first time since last
September. The contract traded at one point as high as 66.50
dollars.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery,
leapt 2.10 dollars to settle at 67.88 dollars a barrel. The
intra-day peak stood at 68.36 dollars.


Prices swung higher as a defiant Iran said it would not release
as promised the female sailor, Faye Turney, because of Britain's
"incorrect" attitude in an escalating crisis between the two
countries.


Bache Financial trader Tony Machacek said in London: "The market
is just very nervous, so any sort of headline or rumor that
suggests that the situation between the West and Iran -- between
Britain and Iran -- might be getting worse is going to have a
bullish impact on prices."


Machacek added that the Iranian situation was overshadowing oil's
true demand- supply balance in the market.


Crude futures had Tuesday soared to six-month highs of 69 dollars
in London and 68.09 in New York on rumors of military conflict in
Iran. They fell back after the stories were unfounded.


The standoff over the British crew is the latest in a long crisis
between Iran and the West over efforts to halt Tehran's nuclear
program suspected of weapons development, which took a new turn
when Iran seized the sailors.


"Clearly, Iran is going to try and extract as much as it can from
this," said Mike Fitzpatrick, analyst at Fimat USA.


"Accordingly, don't look for the hostages to be released any time
soon. If this is the card they hope to use as leverage with the
Security Council, oil prices could move even higher as a result."


The announcement not to free the female sailor, made by the head
of Iran's supreme national security council Ali Larijani, came a
day after London froze ties with Tehran and despite the
intervention of UN chief Ban Ki-Moon.


After Tehran refused to free her, London insisted that it was not
seeking a confrontation with Iran over its capture of British
sailors.


Iran has insisted that the personnel it detained last week were
in Iranian waters. However British military officials have said
the Britons were 1.7 nautical miles (3.15 kilometers) inside
Iraqi waters when they were captured.

