

"The Teletubbies," the British television show for infants that
became a worldwide hit, celebrate its 10th birthday on Friday.


Tinky Winky, Dipsy, Laa-Laa and Po -- the four chubby luminous-
coloured furry figures with aerials on their heads and television
sets in their bellies -- appeared on BBC television for the first
time on March 30, 1997.


"The Teletubbies" have since been screened in 120 countries,
translated into 45 languages, and with merchandise sales topping
one billion US dollars (750,000 euros).


"It was hard work. We did 11-hour days and the suits were heavy
and hot. We certainly weren't hellraisers," Nick Smedley, who
played yellow-coloured Laa- Laa, was quoted as saying in the
newspaper London Lite.


The show has sparked controversy over the years.


Some educationalists have expressed concern that the sing-song
baby language used by the characters could harm speech
development in its pre-school target audience.


That charge has been rebutted by the programme makers and by
other experts who say the Teletubbies unique style helps infants
develop communication and language skills.


In 1997, Dave Thompson, the original actor who donned Tinky
Winky's suit was sacked, as it was felt he had interpreted the
character incorrectly.


When the show was first broadcast in the United States, Christian
campaigner Jerry Falwell took exception to the fact that Tinky
Winky, although considered male due to his relative height,
carried a handbag.


The plump purple creature was "modelling the gay lifestyle",
Falwell charged, unintentionally sparking a rush for Tinky Winky
merchandise on America's gay scene.


BBC Worldwide said it has released Happy Birthday, a two-disc
collection of the 10 most popular episodes and the top 10
Teletubby moments as voted for by the readers of Mother And Baby
magazine.


"The Teletubbies" will also be taking part in a stage show from
December 11 together with other characters from CBeebies, the BBC
channel for the under sixes.


Special events are being held in the United States, Britain,
France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands and China later this
year.

