

Sudan has reaffirmed its agreement to non-African UN soldiers
providing material support to African Union peacekeepers deployed
in Darfur during a rare meeting between the UN chief and Sudanese
President Omar al-Beshir, said the Saudi foreign minister.


Wednesday's meeting of Beshir and Ban Ki-moon in the presence of
Saudi King Abdullah in Riyadh "went a long way to remove ...
suspicions between the United Nations and Sudan," Prince Saud al-
Faisal told reporters.


"Now Sudan agrees that the United Nations will provide the
logistics and the equipment to help the African countries, and
this means by definition that there will be some non-African
soldiers in there," he said.


"I think this is a breakthrough... and we hope it leads
immediately to the humanitarian issue to be resolved quickly and
then to move the forces as quickly as possible with the necessary
equipment and (support of) the United Nations," Saud said.


The rare meeting between the UN chief and Beshir represents a
cautious step forward for the UN and Sudan's three-phase plan to
build a "hybrid" AU-UN force, with the first two phases involving
UN troops providing logistical and material support to the
African peacekeepers.


The sticking point has been the third phase which envisions
17,000 UN troops and 3,000 police that Beshir has adamantly
rejected.


The meeting held late Wednesday on the sidelines of an Arab
summit in Riyadh was also attended by Arab League chief Amr Mussa
and the head of the African Union's executive arm, Alpha Oumar
Konare, and followed a meeting between Ban and Beshir earlier in
the day.


The participants "agreed on the shared need to move expeditiously
ahead with the AU-UN peacekeeping operation," in Darfur, a UN
statement said.


Beshir insisted in a letter to Ban earlier this month that the AU
must remain in control of any joint peacekeeping mission with the
UN in Darfur.


The letter was sent in response to Ban's request to send an
initial force of 2,300 peacekeepers to Darfur to pave the way for
a joint AU-UN force of more than 20,000 troops.


The so-called "hybrid" AU-UN force is meant to take over
peacekeeping in Darfur from the 7,000 AU troops who have failed
to stop the bloodshed in the western Sudanese region, whose area
is roughly equal to the size of France.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
died and more than two million been displaced since the conflict
between rebels and government forces erupted in Darfur in
February 2003. Some sources say the death toll is much higher.


On Wednesday in Khartoum the United Nations signed a new
agreement with Sudan in a bid to remove obstacles to the delivery
of aid to Darfur by the world's largest relief operation.

