

A former senior aide to US Attorney General Alberto Gonzales
directly implicated him Thursday in a scandal over the sacking of
eight federal prosecutors, saying he had approved the dismissals.


"I and others made staff recommendations but they were approved
and signed off on by the principals," Gonzales's former right-
hand man, Kyle Sampson, told US lawmakers.


"The decision makers in this case were the attorney general and
the counsel to the president," the administration's former
official lawyer Harriet Miers, Sampson told the Senate Judiciary
Committee under oath.


Gonzales has faced a chorus of calls to resign over last year's
dismissals  of the US attorneys, powerful local and regional
prosecutors appointed by the president. Some have charged the
sackings were politically motivated.


The committee is investigating why the US attorneys were fired,
even as several of them were in the middle of sensitive
corruption investigations, and how far Gonzales and the White
House were involved in their removal.


Emails released last week showed Gonzales had discussed the
sackings with Sampson on November 27, contrary to the attorney
general's earlier claim that Sampson had handled them on his own.


"I don't think the attorney general's statement that he was not
involved in any discussions about US attorney removals is
accurate," Sampson said.


"I remember discussing with him this process of asking certain US
attorneys to resign. And I believe that he was present at the
meeting on November 27," he added.


But Sampson, who stepped down from his post as chief of staff in
the Justice Department earlier this month over the affair,
defended the dismissals, saying that to his knowledge no attorney
was "asked to resign for an improper reason."


"The decisions to seek the resignations of a handful of US
attorneys were properly made, but poorly explained," he said.


"As presidential appointees, US attorneys serve at the 'pleasure
of the president' and may be asked to resign for almost any
reason with no public or private explanation."


"Based on everything I have seen and heard, I believe that each
replaced US attorney was selected for legitimate reasons falling
well within the president's broad discretion."


Although US attorneys are often replaced at the start of a new
presidential administration, it is not common to do so in mid-
term.


"The dismissed US attorneys have testified under oath and said in
public that they believe political influence was applied," the
Democrat chairman of the Senate committee Patrick Leahy said at
Thursday's hearing.


"If they are right ... then we have a situation highly improper.
And it corrodes the public's trust in our system of justice."


Eyebrows were also raised over Gonzales's role in the affair this
week when another top aide, Monica Goodling, said she would
refuse to testify fearing prosecution.


Sampson said there was a limited category of improper reasons for
firing a prosecutor, including "an effort to interfere with or
influence the investigation or prosecution of a particular case
for political or partisan advantage."


"To my knowledge nothing of the sort occurred here," he said.


White House deputy spokeswoman Dana Perino, responding to
questions on Thursday about the Gonzales affair, reiterated that
"the president has confidence in the attorney general."

