

The UN Security Council on Thursday adopted a watered-down
statement expressing "grave concern" at the continued detention
of 15 British naval personnel by Iran and urged Tehran to allow
consular access to them.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the council chair this
month, read a non-binding statement expressing "grave concern at
the capture and continued detention" of the British crew members
and urged Tehran to allow "consular access" to them.


The statement said the 15 council members "support calls,
including by the UN Secretary General, for an early resolution of
the problem, including the release" of the 15 detained Britons.


The bland statement, which avoided the issue whether the incident
took place in Iranian or Iraqi waters, was agreed after more than
four hours of frantic bargaining.


"Some in the council are not even willing to agree to using the
word immediate with regard to their (the captives') immediate
release," US delegate the UN Jackie Sanders told reporters.


Earlier a Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity,
said Russia opposed a British call for the immediate release of
15 British sailors.


"We will not be able to accept a call for the immediate release
of the 15 UK naval personnel," the diplomat quoted Russian
Ambassador Vitaly Churkin as saying during the closed-door
consultations.


Meanwhile, the United States on Thursday reiterated its strong
support for Britain in its row with Iran over the detainees.


"The British government, I think, has gone out and demonstrated
that these people were in international waters," US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice said in an interview with Fox television
network.


"I think they need to be released and the international community
needs to say to Iran that they need to be released and that is
what we're doing.  We're trying to do anything that we can with
other parties to help the British," she added.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters but Britain says
they were picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


Iran insists that the British sailors crossed into Iranian waters
and its foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said Thursday that
London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial waters
if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.


"They (British leaders) must accept that this violation took
place, that would help to resolve the affair," Mottaki told
Iranian state television.

