

An inquiry was launched Thursday into allegations by members of
the Royal Canadian Mounted Police that its leadership tried to
cover up fraud and abuse by senior officers.


Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day said an independent
investigator would look into possible wrongdoing involving the
administration of the RCMP's pension and investment funds.


"We're taking action ... to determine once and for all what
actually happened," Day told reporters.


RCMP officers testified at a parliamentary public accounts
committee Wednesday that they were blocked from investigating
alleged nepotism, wasteful spending and inappropriate charges to
the RCMP pension and insurance plans.


"We consider this to be a crisis of confidence in the Royal
Canadian Mounted Police," opposition Liberal MP Shawn Murphy
said.


"It's like Watergate," he commented. "The cover-up is worse than
the crime."


Day said the allegations raised serious concerns.


"People said that they felt there was information not
forthcoming. They felt people were moved off of certain files to
hide certain information.


"Anything that was done that was less than fully transparent and
anything that in any way inhibited information coming forward
that should have come forward caused me great concern," he said.


The obstruction probe is just the latest in a series of unseemly
predicaments that have tarnished the reputation of the Mounties,
created in 1873 to bring order to Canada's wild western plains.


In September, a judicial report found that US authorities had
likely relied on faulty intelligence provided by the RCMP to
arrest and deport a Canadian software engineer to Syria, where he
claimed he was jailed and tortured.


The botched terrorism case led to the resignation in December of
Canada's top cop, RCMP Commissioner Guiliano Zaccardelli, for
giving contradictory testimony to lawmakers about the Maher Arar
affair.


Zaccardelli told public broadcaster CBC Thursday there was no
evidence of wrongdoing in this latest scandal and not a cent was
missing from the pension fund.


But retired RCMP staff sergeant Ron Lewis told the public
accounts committee: "While trying to expose these wrongdoings,
which were both criminal and code-of- conduct violations ... I
was met with inaction, delays, roadblocks, obstruction and lies."


"The person who orchestrated most of this cover-up was
Commissioner Zaccardelli," he said.


The investigator will report his findings to the minister within
12 weeks, Day said.

