

Sweden's Henrik Stenson is the man to end the long winning
drought of European players in the majors when he tees off in the
Masters at Augusta next week.


That is the opinion of Nick Faldo, the Englishman who wrote his
own chapter in the history of the fabled tournament with his wins
in 1989, 1990 and 1996.


"He's a great talent," the soon-to-be 50-year-old wrote of
Stenson in the April edition of Golf World.


He may not have a great grip and he uses a lot of arms, but he's
got gorilla strength and I was very impressed with his game from
60 yards in when I played with him.


"Henrik is a fast learner, he's winning regularly and he's solid
with the putter."


The 30-year-old Stenson has also caught Faldo's eye by hiring his
own former caddy Fanny Sunesson to carry his bag.


"That can only be a good thing with her experience around
Augusta, especially as he's only played there once before," added
Faldo.


Stenson's big wins this year in the Dubai Desert Classic and the
WGC Matchplay have hoisted him up to a career-best sixth in the
world rankings and his reknowned long-hitting is ideally suited
to the lengthened layout at the course.


He is also eager to firmly put behind him his debut at the
tournment last year when he missed the cut.


"I didn't play very well last year, so if I can have a bit of
form going in there, I think I can have a good tournament," he
said.


"I think it's still a long way to go before talking about winning
the event, but if I can stay patient and play well I will be in
there with a chance on Sunday."


The Swede will head a record European contingent at the Masters
with notably 11 out of the 12 members of last September's
victorious Ryder Cup team in the field.


They will try to beat the jinx which has seen European players
fail to win any of the 30 majors which have been contested since
Paul Lawrie's win in the British Open at Carnoustie in 1999.


With such as Luke Donald, Paul Casey and Sergio Garcia having
taken over from the generation that spawned Faldo, Severiano
Ballesteros and Bernhard Langer, it's all become something of a
mystery.


Spain's Jose Maria Olazabal, a two-time former winner of the
Masters, who was the top European last year with a tie for third
three strokes behind winner Phil Mickelson, believes it's more
just bad luck than anthing more fundamental.


"The fact that we as Europeans are without a major since 1999 is
amazing up to a certain point, but it is not like we haven't had
the chance," he said.


"Winning a major tournament is difficult. We had an unbelievable
streak especially at Augusta with Nick, Sandy, Seve, Woosie,
Bernhard and myself, but we have been very close in others, in US
Opens, PGAs ... Monty, Lee, Thomas Bjorn.


"We have had the chances, but sooner or later it will come and I
don't think we will have to wait too long for another European
major winner."


Like Stenson, Casey has enjoyed a breakthough in the last 12
months that has seen him climb to 14th in the world rankings and
he is also seen as a potential Masters winner following his tie
for sixth place in 2004.


"That year, I had a sniff of finishing higher than I did, I mean
I was right in the mix," he said.


"I loved it and I think that's why I've got such wonderful
memories of the place. I think the golf course suits me."


Stenson and Casey apart, the four other Europeans currently in
the top 20 are Garcia, Donald, Padraig Harrington of Ireland and
David Howell of England, and all have enjoyed good rounds at
Augusta in the past without managing to keep it going over 72
holes.

