

Inter Milan will sense the chance to move closer to the Serie A
title this weekend with the runaway leaders at home to struggling
Parma and second-placed Roma facing a tough test against AC
Milan.


Inter, who finished third last season but were awarded the
Scudetto after Juventus and AC Milan were found guilty of match-
fixing, have a massive 18-point lead over Roma with just 10 games
left.


Still unbeaten in Serie A, Inter can fully concentrate on the
league following their exit from the Champions League while Roma,
together with AC Milan, are still involved in Europe's premier
competition.


Roma are unlikely to go all out for three points at home to AC
Milan on Saturday with the first leg of their Champions League
quarter-final against English Premiership leaders Manchester
United coming up four days later.


Fifth-placed AC Milan, whose need for a victory is perhaps
greater than Roma's as they try to secure a Champions League
place for next season, face Bayern Munich on Tuesday.


The top two clubs in Serie A go automatically into the Champions
League group stages, while the teams finishing third and fourth
have to play in the two- legged third qualifying round.


With Juventus relegated to Serie B for their match-fixing crimes
and AC Milan docked eight points, Inter's championship challenge
has felt like a procession.


But their in-form striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who will be
suspended for the Parma match due to a one-game ban, can't wait
to crack open the champagne and get the Scudetto party started.


"We're not tired of winning and we want the title as soon as
possible," said the 25-year-old Sweden international who has
netted 15 league goals.


"The fans have been patient, but we are in a hurry."


AC Milan are determined to make the best out of a difficult
season and veteran captain Paolo Maldini believes Ronaldo is the
man who can help them finish the campaign on a high.


The 30-year-old Brazilian striker, a January transfer window
signing from Spanish giants Real Madrid, struggled with injuries
and poor form in his last six months in Spain.


But Maldini believes 'The Phenomenon' is getting back to his
best.


"Ronaldo is a champion and unlike any other player we've had at
the club," said the 38-year-old Maldini.


"He came here after a fairly inactive six months, but he has
trained very hard and his presence can be the turning point in
helping us get fourth place."


Third-placed Lazio, docked three points for their match-fixing
involvement, will be looking for their seventh consecutive win
when they visit Udinese.


The Rome club's impeccable run has left them well placed for a
top-four finish. Lazio have 49 points from their 28 matches
played, nine less than Roma but six ahead of AC Milan.


Fixtures (all 1300GMT kick-off unless stated)


Saturday


Reggina v Siena (1600GMT), Roma v AC Milan (1830GMT)


Sunday


Atalanta v Fiorentina, Cagliari v Messina, Chievo v Sampdoria,
Empoli v Ascoli, Inter Milan v Parma, Livorno v Catania, Torino v
Palermo, Udinese v Lazio (1830GMT)

