

The US economy expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized pace in the
fourth quarter of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates,
revised data showed Thursday.


But analysts said the report showed more tepid growth is likely
ahead as the economy takes a hit from a slumping real estate
market. This raises questions about whether growth will pick up
as expected by the Federal Reserve.


The Commerce Department revision for gross domestic product (GDP)
was up from a 2.2 percent estimate released a month earlier, and
slightly ahead of Wall Street forecasts which called for no
revision.


Much of the upward revision came from a higher level of
inventories, which could mean lower output in the current
quarter. Increased exports and lower imports also helped.


The latest data meant growth for the full year 2006 was 3.3
percent, unchanged the estimate last month.


The initial reaction on Wall Street was positive as the GDP
revision "should ease some concerns regarding shape of current
economic conditions and the earnings outlook for the first
quarter which ends tomorrow," said Fred Dickson, market
strategist at DA Davidson.


"This revision is minor, but serves as a reminder that economic
growth is right at the sweet spot for the Fed's desired soft
landing," said Dick Green at Briefing.com.


"Growth is slightly below long-term potential of 3.0 percent to
an extent that will ease inflationary pressures over time, but
not so weak as to cause significant economic dislocations."


But Robert Brusca at FAO Economics said the revision gives little
reason to cheer.


"GDP is stronger on stronger inventory growth and weaker
imports," he said.


"Weaker imports tell us that the economy is even weaker than we
though since imports are a part of demand that is served from
overseas ... it's a signal that economics condition are weaker
here."


Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at Global Insight, said the
revisions along with recent poor data on housing and capital
spending "set the stage for further weakness in the first half of
this year."


He said first-half 2007 growth is likely to be in the 1.5 to 2.0
percent range and this "will increase the pressure on the Fed to
cut rates."


A key inflation index linked to GDP was revised to show a decline
of 1.0 percent in the fourth quarter, revised from an earlier
estimate of a 0.9 percent drop. Core prices, which exclude food
and energy, increased 1.8 percent, revised down from 1.9 percent.


Over the year, the price index was up 2.7 percent and core prices
rose 2.2 percent.


Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke on Wednesday repeated his
view that the economy will remain on a "moderate" growth path
despite weakness in the housing sector.


He also said inflation pressures are elevated but likely to ease.


But Bernanke said the outlook for both growth and inflation
remains subject to uncertainties, particularly in the housing
market.


Residential investment plunged 19.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, revised from the earlier estimate of a 19.1 percent
drop.

