

New Zealand captain Stephen Fleming believes his side have never
been as well prepared as they are now to win a World Cup in the
10 years he has been leading the one-day side.


Fleming's team took a big stride towards the semi-finals with a
crushing seven- wicket win against West Indies in their opening
Super Eights match where they bowled out the hosts for a meagre
177 before knocking off the winning runs with more than 10 overs
to spare.


New Zealand have never won the World Cup and last reached the
semi-finals in 1992 but Fleming, after a dominating win at the
Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, told reporters: "We've never been as
prepared as this, we've looked at pretty much every scenario and
some of them twice."


New Zealand carried forward two points into the second phase
after beating fellow Group C qualifiers England and Fleming
reckoned they would need 10 in all to be certain of a last four
spot.


"Ideally we need 10, eight will be close, it could be a logjam,"
the opening batsman, who made 45 against the West Indies before
being run out, explained.


"It's still a little bit hard to work out. Part of the reason we
put the foot down today is run rates may come into it as well so
we wanted to finish the game after we felt we'd got in a position
where we couldn't lose it."


New Zealand return here on Monday to face a Bangladesh side that
beat them by two wickets in a warm-up match earlier this month.


"We know we've got a couple of tricky encounters. Bangladesh
tripped us up in the warm-up match and Ireland have obviously
tested Pakistan and in the right conditions can be tricky.


"But if we continue the way we're playing we're not far away
(from the semis). I think that's the exciting thing, each game
you tick off it becomes one closer to the semi-finals, but the
final is what we're after."


All-rounder Jacob Oram led New Zealand's attack against the West
Indies with three for 23.


The giant paceman broke the ring finger on his left hand taking a
catch on the boundary during last month's Chappell-Hadlee series
and had been uncertain over how much he would contribute to New
Zealand's World Cup campaign.


But Fleming was in no doubt about Oram's current worth.


"That all rounder spot is crucial," said the captain.


"Jacob's batting has been outstanding since his return and his
bowling today was just as effective as what it was when he left
the side a while back.


"To be able to generate the extra bounce on pitches like this is
going to be important."


The modest Oram said of his haul: "There was movement in the air
and off the pitch. If you got it in the right areas and hit the
right locations you were going to be in business.


"It just rounds off what I do in the team. I feel in the recent
past I've been playing with half my skills and since coming back
into the team against Australia I couldn't be happier with my
batting. Bowling has been the issue and I've been working hard on
that."


Other players who had fine displays against the West Indies were
wicket-keeper Brendon McCullum, who grabbed four catches, and
Scott Styris, who saw New Zealand home with 80 not out.


"His keeping was pretty special," said Fleming of McCullum.


"It's the little things he's doing not just the catches, the
catches and work up at the stumps has been very good, the work
he's doing off the ball and the energy he's generating is very
important to the side."


As for Styris, Fleming said: "He's playing very well. We're
delighted with our all-round players at the moment and the
qualities they bring to the side."

