

The UN Security Council on Thursday was divided over a British
call for the immediate release of 15 British sailors held by
Iran, with Russia raising objections, diplomats said.


A Western diplomat speaking on condition of anonymity said a
British draft statement being debated in closed-door
consultations was softened to merely note the Council's "concern"
about the seizure of the 15 Britons and call for "their immediate
release."


But several diplomats said Russia was pressing for a blander
statement that would call for "humanitarian access" to the
detainees that negotiations were continuing on acceptable
language.


The latest text would not mention the fact that the captured
Britons and their two boats were, according to London, seized in
Iraqi waters, the diplomats said.


The original British draft circulated Wednesday would have the
Security Council "deplore the continuing detention by the
Government of Iran of 15 UK naval personnel" and back "calls for
(their) immediate release".


It would note that "the UK personnel were operating in Iraqi
waters as part of the multinational Force-Iraq under a mandate
from the Security Council under resolution 1723 (2006) and at the
request of the government of Iraq.


Earlier Britain's UN envoy Emyr Jones Parry told reporters that
Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates of two British boats
were changed by Iran to make it appear they were in Iranian
waters.


"It was only when we point out that the detention (of the 15
British sailors and marines) was inappropriate and in our view
unlawful that the coordinates were then changed by the Iranian
government to be coordinates within Iranian waters," British
Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said.


"Our position has been consistent for six days. We want these
guys all released immediately. We think the detention was
inappropriate and I hope I can get the Security Council to rally
to that simple proposition," the British envoy said.


The 15 Britons were captured on Friday in the northern Gulf in
what Iran insists were its territorial waters but Britain says
they were picked up while on a routine patrol in Iraqi waters.


Iran insists that the British sailors crossed into Iranian waters
and its foreign minister Manouchehr Mottaki said Thursday that
London must recognize a violation of Iranian territorial waters
if it wanted to help resolve the crisis.


"They (British leaders) must accept that this violation took
place, that would help to resolve the affair," Mottaki told
Iranian state television.

