

A US military prosecutor on Thursday rejected speculation that
Australian David Hicks has pleaded guilty to a terrorism charge
just to win his release from the Guantanamo detention camp.


Colonel Morris Davis, chief prosecutor for the new military
tribunals set up to try terror suspects, discounted comments from
David Hicks's father or others questioning the sincerity of the
plea.


Davis said Hicks will be under oath when he appears before a
military judge on Friday to affirm his guilty plea to a charge of
lending "material support to terrorism."


"I would say the facts presented under oath in the courtroom
tomorrow carry more weight than speculation from those who are
removed from the process," Davis told a news conference at the US
naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.


He said he was certain Hicks's defense lawyer was "not conspiring
with Mr. Hicks to commit perjury tomorrow in the courtroom."


Hicks, 31, a former kangaroo skinner and horse trainer, entered
his guilty plea before the tribunal on Monday, five years after
he was detained in Afghanistan and taken to Guantanamo.


He faces sentencing on Saturday once his guilty plea is formally
approved by the military judge.


His father, Terry Hicks, said on Thursday he believed his son
admitted to training with Al-Qaeda out of a desperate desire to
get out of Guantanamo and was disheartened by the tribunal's
disqualification of two of his lawyers in the first day's
hearings.


"So what David has done, in his best interests, is to plead
guilty," his father said.


Hicks is the first to be charged by the controversial military
tribunals set up under a new law after the US Supreme Court ruled
a similar system illegal.


As lawyers worked out the terms of Hicks's plea deal and the
chief prosecutor defended the fairness of the proceedings, US
Defense Secretary Robert Gates told lawmakers in Washington that
tribunal trials lacked international credibility because of the
taint of past treatment of detainees.


Gates said he had suggested the possibility of moving the trials
to US military courts in the United States.


Critics of the tribunals have questioned if Hicks qualified as a
serious terror suspect as the charge sheet said he underwent
training at Al-Qaeda camps but did not accuse him of having
staged attacks on US targets.


But Davis defended the prosecution of Hicks, saying that rank-
and-file fighters needed to face justice and not just the leaders
of terrorist networks.


"It's those tactical soldiers out on the front line that need to
be held accountable just like the strategic thinkers," Davis
said.


"So when you ask why are people like David Hicks being held to
account, it's because they play an important part in the war on
terrorism."


Davis also rejected criticism from international rights groups
about Hicks's five years of detention at Guantanamo without
charges.


The United States had a right under international law to hold
enemy fighters during armed conflict, Davis said. "Detaining the
enemy is a right that every nation recognizes," he said.


Prosecutors charged that Hicks volunteered to take up arms in
support of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan during the US-led
invasion and spent two hours on a front line. He was captured by
the US-backed Northern Alliance as he tried to head to Pakistan
in a taxi.

