

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier denied on
Thursday charges that Berlin left a German-born Turk to languish
in Guantanamo Bay prison for years after the United States
offered to free him.


"There was neither an official nor an informal offer to release
him," Steinmeier told a parliamentary committee probing the case
of Murat Kurnaz.


Kurnaz, 24, claims that the government of former chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder rejected an offer to release him from the US
detention centre in Cuba in 2002.


He was finally freed in August 2006, after Angela Merkel became
chancellor, because of a lack of proof that he belonged to a
terrorist group


The case has dogged Steinmeier, who is considered a rising star
of Germany's Social-Democrats.


He was Schroeder's chief of staff in 2002 and attended a meeting
with members of the German foreign intelligence service (BND) at
which Kurnaz's fate was discussed.


Steinmeier acknowledged that back then, in the wake of the
September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States, he argued that
if US authorities were to free Kurnaz he should be released to
Turkey, instead of being shipped back to Germany.


"In these dangerous times it was of course our task to ensure
that German citizens did not come to harm. It is with this in
mind, that I asked that if he were released, it be to Turkey."


He told the committee that it had been "not only justifiable but
imperative" to look upon Kurnaz as a potential security threat.


"It would be morally and politically wrong to deny the
responsibility that we held in our hands at the time," Steinmeier
said.


Kurnaz has claimed that he was repeatedly mistreated in
Guantanamo Bay.


Steinmeier told reporters that "nobody, myself included, is
denying that Mr Kurnaz suffered" but said that it was the United
States' decision to only release him in 2006.


"The former government did not extend his detention in any way.
That accusation is baseless," he said.


Earlier on Thursday, former interior minister Otto Schily took
some of the pressure off Steinmeier by accepting full political
responsibility for the handling of the case.


He insisted that Kurnaz "was not harmless."


"Steinmeier had to rely on the proper, careful analysis of the
facts carried out by the interior ministry and the intelligence
services," Schily said, adding that the government's conduct had
been "perfectly correct."


Steinmeier and Schily echoed statements to the committee earlier
this month by Ernst Uhrlau, the head of the Germany's foreign
intelligence service.


He said that Berlin did not want Kurnaz in Germany in 2002
because "we believed that Kurnaz was potentially dangerous."


Kurnaz has returned to his hometown of Bremen in northern German
following his release.


He was arrested in Pakistan in 2001 and taken to Afghanistan,
before being transferred to the Guantanamo Bay prison in Cuba in
early 2002.


A former high-ranking US state department official said earlier
this month that despite Berlin's protests that it did not abandon
Kurnaz, the Schroeder government never requested his liberation.


The inquiry is also probing the case of Khaled el-Masri, a German
of Lebanese origin who was kidnapped by the CIA and held in
Afghanistan for five months. Masri has attempted unsuccessfully
to sue the CIA through the US courts.


Berlin's handling of both cases has been sharply criticised by
the political opposition.

