

MySpace will host mystery series "Prom Queen" in 90-second
episodes produced by former Walt Disney studio head Michael
Eisner, the video sharing website announced Thursday.


Eisner's independent multimedia studio Vuguru produced the
snippets, which will launch April 2 at MySpace website
http://myspace.com/promqueentv.


"'Prom Queen' has the potential to be a break-out hit on
MySpace," said Chris DeWolfe, co-founder of the teen-oriented
social networking website now owned by News Corp.


"Video is a cultural cornerstone for the MySpace community; it's
a huge part of how our users express themselves and discover pop
culture."


"Prom Queen" will play out over 80 episodes, with a new episode
appearing daily after the Sunday premier.


MySpace said it will provide extra show-related content such as
character "diaries," storyline tips, and behind-the-scenes video
clips.


The "Prom Queen" story follows a group of friends in their final
two months of high school.


"With this partnership, the future of on-line story-telling is
now," Eisner said in a statement.


The "Prom Queen" debut is a landmark event for the MySpace video-
sharing channel introduced without fanfare about a year ago and
it takes the television series concept to an immersive,
interactive Internet-age level.


"You almost have to view this as yet another form of
entertainment," MySpace Video general manager Jeff Berman told
AFP.


Each "Prom Queen" character will have a MySpace profile page
crafted to appear like that of a living high school student.


Diary entries, video blogs and other profile content will build
on what plays out in the online shows, Berman said.


"I think the 90-second episode is part of the new entertainment
universe," Berman said, referring to the show segments as
"webisodes."


MySpace members will be able to interact with the characters on
profile pages the same way they would with each other.


"If you fall in love with one character or despise another you
can go to their MySpace page and make them your friends just as
you can with your friends from school, people at work, or the
Black Eyed Peas."


Black Eyed Peas is among groups that use MySpace pages to
interact with fans and promote their music.


MySpace said "Prom Queen" was the first of a wave of original,
Internet-tailored shows that will appear on the website in months
to come.


"This is the first deal like this that we have done, yet we have
quietly become the second most popular video site on the
Internet," Berman said.


Google-owned YouTube is the most popular video-sharing website.


Nearly 100 million people visit MySpace monthly and approximately
1.5 billion MySpace pages are viewed daily, according to industry
statistics.

