

Britain took the escalating crisis with Iran over 15 captured
naval personnel to the UN Security Council Thursday, as Tehran
withdrew an offer to free the only woman detainee.


Iran also demanded an apology for what it said had been an
incursion by the British navy.


As world oil prices soared to six month highs on the spike in
tension, UN Security Council members debated a proposed British
statement which calls for the "immediate release" of the eight
sailors and seven marines.


"Members of the Security Council deplore the continuing detention
by the government of Iran of 15 UK naval personnel," said the
proposed statement.


It also said that when they were seized, "the UK personnel were
operating in Iraqi waters" under a UN Security Council resolution
authorising a multi- national force in Iraq.


The position of the 15 has become a key part of the dispute. Iran
has insisted the British naval personnel had entered its waters
at six different points before they were arrested.


Iran demanded on Thursday that Britain say sorry for the
intrusion.


"The logical solution ... is for the British authorities to
accept the reality, present their apologies to the great Iranian
people," armed forces spokesman General Alireza Afshar was cited
as saying by an Iranian news agency.


The head of Iran's supreme national security council, Ali
Larijani, earlier said the only woman captive, Faye Turney, would
not be released because of Britain's "incorrect" attitude.


"It was announced that a woman in the group would be freed, but
(this development) was met with an incorrect attitude." Larijani
said on state television that the release "will be suspended and
it will not take place".


Iranian state television ran footage of Turney and her 14 male
colleagues on Wednesday, in which she said they had strayed into
Iranian waters.


The film provoked a furious reaction in London. Prime Minister
Tony Blair called the Iranian tactics "a disgrace" while the
British government suspects Turney spoke under duress.


"What we have to do in a very firm way, is step up the pressure,"
Blair told ITV television.


"The important thing is we just keep making it very, very clear
to the Iranian government it is not a situation that will be
relieved by anything but the unconditional release of all our
people," he added.


Larijani, who is also Iran's chief negotiator in its nuclear
dispute with western powers, threatened however to pursue a
"legal path" in the crisis which could delay any solution.


"Instead of sending a technical team to examine the problem, they
kicked up a media storm, announced a freeze in relations and
spoke about the Security Council. That will not resolve the
problem. They have miscalcuated," said Larijani.


London announced on Wednesday that it was freezing official
contacts with Tehran because of the detentions.


In mounting diplomatic activity, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon
spoke to Iran's foreign minister Manouchehr Mottaki about the
crisis at an Arab summit in Saudi Arabia. France summoned Iran's
ambassador to Paris to express support for Britain's case.


But the United States sought to downplay the sense of crisis.


"There is no reason for us to choose a confrontational path now,"
US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns told Congress. "We
believe diplomacy can succeed and we do not believe that conflict
with Iran is inevitable."


Britain's ambassador in Tehran lodged a formal protest to Iran
over the television footage, the Foreign Office said.


Iranian television showed the Britons having a meal and featured
Turney, 26, wearing a black headscarf and saying: "Obviously we
trespassed in the waters."


"They were friendly, very hospitable, very thoughtful. Nice
people," she said of her captors, who have kept them at a secret
location.


The crisis is unfolding against the backdrop of already tense
relations between Tehran and the West over Tehran's nuclear
programme, with the United States claims is a cover for building
atomic weapons.


Two US carrier groups are staging war games in the Gulf near
Iran.


The crisis has had a significant impact on oil prices, which
rebounded above 67 dollars a barrel in London after Larijani's
comments.

