

The United States slammed the Syrian government Thursday for
detaining political opponents in an arbitrary manner, and sought
their immediate and unconditional release.


Washington said it was particularly concerned about the cases of
political prisoners Anwar al-Bunni and Kamal Labwani, both of
whom it said were being tried in criminal court for expressing
their opinion.


Al-Bunni, a lawyer, was arrested in May after signing a petition
urging Syria to improve strained relations with Lebanon.


Labwani was seized in November 2005, on his return to Syria after
several months in Europe and the United States, where he met with
European and US officials to call for peaceful democratic reform
inside Syria.


He is charged with "encouraging foreign aggression against
Syria."


Sean McCormack, the US State Department spokesman, said the
United States "deplore the arbitrary arrest and detention of
political prisoners by the Syrian government.


"We join others in calling on the Syrian government to
immediately and unconditionally release them and other prisoners
of conscience, including Mahmoud Issa and Michel Kilo," he said.


Syrian dissidents Kilo and Issa, under arrest since May 2006,
were charged in a Damascus criminal court on Tuesday with
spreading false information and sowing discord, a rights group
said.


They were also charged with "weakening national sentiment."


Issa was separately accused of exposing Syria to the threat of
attack.


Syria plans a series of elections this year, including a
referendum for a new mandate for President Bashar al-Assad, as
the regime hardens its stand against opposition figures seeking
to ease political restrictions.


Only the Baath party, in power since 1963, and its allies are
recognized by Syrian law, despite opposition calls for legal
status.


Western calls for Syria to respect human rights are seen by the
authorities as "interference."


McCormack said the continued use of arbitrary arrests and
detentions of its opponents demonstrated the Syrian regime's
"contempt for accepted international human rights standards."


He said that open political discourse where people did not fear
imprisonment simply for expressing their views was an essential
element of democracy.


"The United States stands with the Syrian people in their
struggle for universal freedoms and calls on the Syrian
government to end its abusive practices," he said.


The United States has also accused Syria of seeking to
destabilize Lebanon and conniving with insurgents in neighboring
Iraq.


Washington withdrew its ambassador in Damascus after Syrian
authorities were implicated in the February 2005 assassination of
former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri in Beirut.

