

Israel on Thursday refused to accept the revived Arab peace
initiative as it stands, even as Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said
it reflected a "revolutionary change" in Arab thinking.


The "Riyadh Declaration" adopted by the 22-member Arab League
"translates into a revolutionary change in the Arab countries'
perception of the world," Olmert said in comments carried on
Israeli public radio.


"The countries who count in the Arab world have started to
understand that Israel is not their biggest worry," he added.


Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the plan -- offering
peace and normal ties if Israel withdraws from land seized in the
1967 war, allows the creation of a Palestinian state and the
return of Palestinian refugees -- could not be accepted without
negotiations.


"There is only one way to overcome our differences, and that is
negotiation," he told Israeli public radio. "It's impossible to
say: you must take what we offer you as is."


The Arab nations called on "the government of Israel and all
Israelis to accept the Arab peace initiative and seize the
opportunity to resume the process of direct and serious
negotiations on all tracks."


The Israeli foreign ministry said in a statement that it was
interested in dialogue with moderate Arab states, but did not
endorse the document.


"Israel is sincerely interested in continuing dialogue with Arab
countries who want to make peace with a view to promoting a
process of normalisation and cooperation and hopes that the
Riyadh summit will contribute to this effort," it said.


Other Israeli officials said negotiations were needed as parts of
the iniative, notably on the refugees, were unacceptable to the
Jewish state.


"There is no alternative to negotiations," Peres said. "With a
diktat neither the Palestinians, nor the Arabs nor us will
achieve a solution."


Yitzhak Herzog, welfare minister and a member of Israel's
powerful security cabinet, said: "Israel has a problem with this
initiative, notably concerning the right of return of the
Palestinians."


"It is also impossible for Israel to accept to the letter the
Arab position concerning borders," he said. However, he added:
"The Arab initiative constitutes a positive step as a starting
point for negotiations."


Silvan Shalom, an MP with the main right-wing opposition Likud
party, called the Arab League summit in Riyadh "deceitful."


"The Arab countries are not proposing a real peace," he said.
"The government should say a clear no to this initiative as its
acceptance will signify the end of the state of Israel."


Although Israel rejected the Arab iniative when it was first
unveiled in 2002, officials have said during the past several
weeks that the plan could be a good basis for negotiations if the
clauses granting Palestinian refugees the right of return are
dropped.


According to the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA, there
are more than four million Palestinian refugees who live mostly
in the Palestinian territories, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Libya
-- most of them descendants of the people who fled or were forced
out during the 1948 war when the Jewish state was created.


Israel fiercely opposes allowing refugees to return to lands they
occupied prior to the 1948 war, arguing that the influx would
effectively erase the Jewish character of the state.


Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal warned in an
interview with a British newspaper on Wednesday that Israel
should not expect any further diplomatic overtures.


"If Israel refuses (the plan), that means it doesn't want peace
and it places everything back in the hands of fate. They will be
putting their future not in the hands of the peacemakers but in
the hands of the lords of war."

