

The dollar traded mixed Thursday as an upward revision to
estimates of US fourth quarter growth failed to ease market
concerns about economic weakness.


The euro rose to 1.3331 dollars at 2100 GMT after 1.3312 late
Wednesday in New York.


The dollar meanwhile rose to 118.02 yen, from 116.85 on
Wednesday, after a weak report on Japanese retail sales and Tokyo
rejected accusations it was manipulating its currency.


In Washington the US Commerce Department said the economy
expanded at a 2.5 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter
of 2006, a bit faster than earlier estimates.


But analysts cautioned that the report showed more tepid growth
was likely ahead as the economy takes a hit from a slumping real
estate market. The data raised questions about whether growth
will pick up as expected by the Federal Reserve.


The Commerce Department revision for gross domestic product (GDP)
was up from a 2.2 percent estimate released a month earlier and
slightly ahead of Wall Street forecasts which called for no
change.


The report "prompted a knee-jerk reaction in currency markets,
pushing the dollar modestly higher against the majors," but this
was short-lived, said Bank of New York currency strategist
Michael Woolfolk.


"The final estimate of GDP was a modest improvement over the
previous estimate, but nonetheless confirmed that the US economy
slowed to below-trend for the last three quarters of 2006."


Mitul Kotecha, head of forex strategy at Calyon, said a closer
inspection of the data gave a much less optimistic picture.


"If you look at the detail some of the figures are quite awful,"
he said.


"Residential investment was down 19.8 percent, equipment and
software was down 3.4 percent while a lot of the gains came from
increased inventories."


The dollar also received a short-lived boost from news the number
of newly laid- off workers signing up for unemployment benefits
last week declined, suggesting the job market is still in good
shape even as the economy goes through a sluggish spell.


Tensions between Iran and Britain, prompted by the Iranian
seizure of 15 British naval personnel in the northern Gulf,
provided currencies with some support, as investors moved away
from riskier assets.


The euro was firm, as declines in French and German unemployment
reinforced expectations the European Central Bank would raise the
key refi rate a further quarter point to 4.0 percent.


French unemployment fell 0.1 percentage points to 8.4 percent in
February, according to government sources. Economists had
expected the rate to be unchanged at 8.5 percent.


Earlier, the German Labor Office said the number of jobless
people in Germany in March fell a seasonally adjusted 65,000 to
3.832 million from 3.897 million in February. The decline brought
the adjusted unemployment rate in March to 9.2 percent from 9.3
reported in February.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2170 Swiss francs
from 1.2163 Wednesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9620 dollars after 1.9616.

