

A common energy policy is high on the EU's list of priorities,
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso on Thursday
told lawmakers in new EU member state Lithuania.


"Three years ago, we didn't talk about energy policy and today it
is a priority for the entire EU," he said in a speech to the
Lithuanian parliament. "There is a consensus for the need to
develop a European energy policy."


Lithuania and its Baltic neighbours Estonia and Latvia have
launched several projects to try to reduce their dependence on
Russia and build energy ties with fellow EU member states.


The three states and Poland are in the early stages of building a
nuclear power station in eastern Lithuania. Estonia late last
year inaugurated an undersea electricity cable linking it with
Finland, and Poland and Lithuania have signed a deal to link
their power grids.


The Baltic states are still linked to the Russian electricity
grid, as they were during Soviet rule, which lasted from the end
of World War II until 1991, and also rely heavily on Russia for
supplies of natural gas and oil.


"The Commission has been following developments in the energy
field in Lithuania," Barroso said.


He cited incidents that have disrupted energy supplies Lithuania,
such as "the interruption of oil supplies," or raised concern
here, such as "the deal on the (German-Russian Baltic Sea)
pipeline."


Last year, Russia cut off the flow of crude oil through the
Druzhba-1 pipeline, which feeds Russian oil to Lithuania's
Mazeikiu oil refinery, saying the Soviet- era pipe had ruptured.


The halt in oil supplies came just weeks after Polish oil group
PKN Orlen sealed a deal with Russian oil group Yukos to buy the
Mazeikiu complex, apparently to the annoyance of Moscow which
wanted the Baltic oil facility to be sold to a Russian company.


And in 2005, Russian and German companies inked a deal, with the
nod from their governments, to lay a pipeline along the floor of
the Baltic Sea --    bypassing the Baltic states and Poland -- to
carry gas from Russia to Germany.


The deal has not only angered Lithuania and its neighbours, who
stand to lose out on potentially lucrative transit fees, but has
also raised concerns for the fragile environment of the Baltic
Sea.


"I can assure you that the Commission is continuing to press for
engagement from Russia in a positive, long-term relationship,
particularly for energy," Barroso said.


EU and Russian leaders are due to hold a summit meeting on May 18
in the Russian city of Samara.


EU Commissioner for energy Andris Piebalgs earlier this month
promised to discuss the reopening of the Druzhba-1 pipeline at
the meeting.

