

The United States on Thursday called for a probe into the weekend
killing of a Sudan Liberation Movement commander, which
jeopardizes a Darfur peace deal, a US spokesman said.


"The United States joins United Nations Special Envoy Jan
Eliasson and African Union Special Envoy Salim Ahmed Salim in
calling for an impartial investigation of last weekend's attack
on Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM) facilities in Khartoum and the
killing of a SLM senior commander near Nyala, South Darfur,"
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said in a statement.


"We abhor these senseless acts of violence that undermine the
Darfur Peace Agreement," he said.


The agreement "is the path forward for providing a peaceful
resolution to the Darfur crisis and for ending the suffering of
innocent civilians," he said in a statement.


Former Darfur rebels said on Monday a senior commander was killed
in an ambush in the troubled Sudanese region at the weekend on
the same day as a gunbattle claimed 11 lives, a new blow to the
peace deal.


"The United States regrets the loss of life and hopes an
investigation results in a full and transparent accounting of
events, which will lead to the arrest and conviction of the
perpetrators," McCormack said.


SLM officials in Nyala said the attackers were members of the
feared Janjaweed, a government-backed Arab militia accused of a
spate of human rights abuses in Darfur since the ethnic minority
rebels rose up in 2003.


The Darfur ambush came the same day as a gunbattle between SLM
supporters and police in Khartoum's twin city of Omdurman left 11
dead, including eight rebels and two police.


The clash was the first in the capital between the SLM and the
government. It was also the worst violence in the metropolis
since riots sparked by the death of southern former rebel leader
John Garang in August 2005 killed more than 45 people.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed and two million displaced since the conflict erupted.
Some sources say the death toll is much higher.


In the face of the worsening bloodshed, the Khartoum regime of
President Omar al-Beshir faces mounting calls for UN sanctions.

