

The Red Cross said Thursday it was unable to visit hostages held
by armed groups in Colombia in 2006 amid a deterioration in one
of the largest humanitarian crises in the western hemisphere.


International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) spokesman Yves
Heller said the agency maintained extensive confidential contacts
with the rebel Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and
the National Liberation Army (ELN).


"We try to work to have a constructive dialogue with these groups
to ensure the release of hostages ... and to ensure that hostages
can transmit messages to their families," the ICRC Colombia
official explained.


"But the situation is very complicated. In 2006 we were not able
to visit any hostages due to the security situation in the field.
In the past we did," he told journalists here.


Some 396 new cases of missing people were recorded by the Geneva-
based humanitarian agency in 2006, bringing the total to about
4,000 since it arrived in Colombia in 1969.


Two to three million people are believed to have been displaced
in nearly 40 years of internal conflict involving the government,
paramilitary groups and leftist guerrillas.


"In 2006 once again thousands were forced to flee their homes as
a result of pressure to participate in hostilities, death
threats, killing of family members and the danger of being caught
in cross fire," said ICRC delegation chief Barbara Hintermann.


"We are deeply concerned about the growing plight of civilians in
this conflict," she added.


The ICRC said the number of displaced it assisted in the country
increased from 51,391 to 62,428 last year after a decline for the
three previous years.


"The conflict has generated one of the largest humanitarian
crises in the western hemisphere," Heller underlined.


"The major cause of displacement is threats that come from
parties to the conflict. In many cases it's because a group wants
to control that territory," he added.


While the government has started talks with the 4,500-strong ELN
aimed at starting peace negotiations, Bogota remains at
loggerheads with the 14,000-strong FARC.


The ICRC reiterated that it was ready to help out in an eventual
prisoner exchange, provided the conditions were right.

