

Two gold medals and a silver from four events on the first day of
the world track championships has left few doubts over Britain's
Olympic objectives for 2008.


Olympic champion Bradley Wiggins cruised to victory in the men's
individual pursuit final after humiliating defending champion
Robert Bartko by catching the German less than three minutes into
the four-minute plus race.


The 26-year-old's feat was soon followed by Britain's second gold
of the day, from the inaugural women's team sprint event in which
Sharaze Reade and Victoria Pendleton combined to beat Dutchwomen
Yvonne Hijgenaar and Willy Kanis.


It might not be an Olympic event, but this result is sure to give
Pendleton, a former world sprint champion, confidence ahead of
her bid to reclaim her crown on Saturday.


Britain could have realistically won three golds on the first
day, looking primed for team sprint gold after dominating
qualifying with a world best time, which are not considered
official world records.


However they had to settle for one less after French trio Gregory
Bauge, Mickael Bourgoin and Arnaud Tournant turned up the heat on
the freshly-laid Siberian pine boards.


The trio had beaten Britain to gold in the team sprint last year,
and produced their own world best time to pip Scotland's Craig
MacLean, Ross Edgar and Chris Hoy by just 0.002sec and defend
their crown.


The French team's coach, Olympic and world track great Florian
Rousseau, will also be looking ahead to Beijing, and could not
hide his joy.


"I'm not relieved, I'm happy," he said.


"I'm proud of this team. After a few hiccups in qualifying, we
knew it was going to be extremely tight in the final.


"But they went out believing, and came back with the result we
wanted."


The British had a relatively slow start but in the third lap
reigning kilometre world champion Hoy dug deep to give them hope
of a late upset.


In the end his old foe in the four-lap race against the clock,
Tournant, held him off.


"It's obviously disappointing, but what can you do? We all went
faster than we've gone before, and when you're breaking world
bests then it's positive in a way," said Hoy.


MacLean, who won sprint silver in Bordeaux last year when he
finished behind flying Dutchman Theo Bos, added: "We've got mixed
emotions. To go that fast and lose the gold by just two
thousandths of a second, it's gutting."


Olympic champion Wiggins was untouchable in the pursuit, an event
which is nevertheless missing the presence of the other fast
Bradley; McGee, the Australian who is currently sidelined.


Wiggins had gone out to "send out a message" in the morning
qualifying session when he clocked 4:15.976, a time that was four
seconds faster than his closest rival, Roberto Bartko.


In the final, Germany's defending champion led for only a few
laps before Wiggins' big gears began to produce the power he
needed for the rest of the race.


The 26-year-old, who has only recently returned to track cycling
with a view to defending his crown at the Beijing Olympics in
2008, only had to race for just under three minutes before
catching up with Bartko and bringing the race to a premature end.


"I expected to win this but you still have to go out and do it. I
wanted to put out a message here, which obviously being a pre-
Olympic year is very important," said Wiggins, who last competed
at world level in 2003 when he won gold in the individual and
silver in the team event.


"Everything here is all about Beijing, and the world will be
looking to see who's on form and who's not."


He is now primed to lead Britain's gold bid in the team event:
"I'm out of here now and this jersey's in the suitcase. But I'll
be 100 percent up for the that."

