

US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday the United States
had no plans to release five Iranians captured in Iraq and
accused of supporting Iraqi insurgents.


Gates rejected speculation that the United States was preparing
to release the group or allow consular access to them as part of
a deal under which Iran released 15 British sailors and marines
accused of entering Iranian waters.


"I think there's no inclination right now to let them go," Gates
told reporters in Washington when asked about the fate of the
five Iranians captured by US forces in Iraq and held since
January.


"Iraqi government officials and US officials are discussing if
there's some way, perhaps, that there could be some kind of
Iranian access to them," he said. "But as far as I know, there's
no requirement for that."


"I don't think that consular access is being considered. I think
the issue is whether there's some other means by which some other
access might be given," he added.


Gates' comments appeared to fall short of a statement by US
military spokesman Major General William Caldwell, who told
reporters in Baghdad that a consular request to visit the five
Iranians was "being assessed."


Washington has been at pains to deny any link between the release
of the British troops and any access to the five detained
Iranians.


US President George W. Bush said Tuesday he agreed with British
Prime Minister Tony Blair "that there should be no quid pro quos
when it comes to the hostages."


State Department spokesman Tom Casey said Wednesday that there
was "no link whatsoever" between the two cases, while Blair
insisted there had been "no negotiation" to secure the freedom of
the captured Britons.


The five Iranians were arrested by US forces in the northern city
of Arbil, in Iraqi Kurdistan, on January 11. US officials accused
the men of being members of the elite Al-Quds brigade of Iran's
Revolutionary Guards.


US officials have remained vague about the fate of the five,
declining to say where they are being held. "They are being
treated as any other security detainee in Iraq," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said Tuesday.


"They are being detained because they were involved in networks
that were providing EFDs (explosive foreign devices) to
individuals in Iraq for using those EFDs against our troops."


Tehran has said the five were diplomats working in a consulate
office in Arbil -- comments that Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar
Zebari seemed to support in an interview with the New York Times
Thursday.


He said that the men were operating with the knowledge of the
Iraqi government and were not involved in any sort of
"clandestine operation."


"They were known by us. They were under surveillance by regional
security. They operated with the approval of the regional
government and with the knowledge of the Iraqi government.


"We were in the process of formalizing that liaison office into a
consulate. Then they would have diplomatic immunity," he said.


Washington and Tehran broke diplomatic ties almost 27 years ago
and US interests in Iran are conducted via Switzerland.

