

With more than one in three French voters still undecided, a
growing number of voices are calling for presidential candidates
to square off in a full-scale debate to allow voters to better
size them up.


Centrist candidate Francois Bayrou is championing the idea of an
Internet debate between the top four contenders while a group of
400 journalists who work for public broadcasters are calling for
a televised showdown between all 12 candidates.


On Thursday, the journalists said more than 11,000 people had
signed a petition launched in February demanding that public
broadcasters organise a debate between all 12 candidates in the
runup to the April 22 vote.


"A debate would pit the candidates against each other and allow
people to decide," said Jean-Francois Tealdi, a television
reporter and one of the initiators of the petition.


"The absence of such a debate is an offence against democracy,"
he said.


All of the candidates have said they are open to the idea, except
for frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy who argues that a face-to-face
duel should take place between the two top contenders who will
move on to the May 6 runoff.


"Let's let the French choose the two candidates for the second
round and at that time, there will be debate," said Sarkozy this
week during a campaign swing through the northern Brittany
region.


"A debate between 12, I really don't see the point," said
Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing Union for a Popular
Movement.


Bayrou's call for an online debate was intended to circumvent
rules by the Higher Media Council (CSA), which states that all
candidates must be given equal access to air time during the
campaign.


The CSA does not have any authority over the Internet.


Bayrou was hoping to join Sarkozy, Socialist candidate Segolene
Royal and far- right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen for a debate that
would be filmed and transmitted over the Internet.


But Tealdi, from the group of journalists, said many French
voters who are poor or jobless don't have access to the Internet
and would not be able to follow the great encounter between the
Elysee hopefuls.


Bayrou, who is holding the third spot in the race behind Royal,
said Thursday that pressure was mounting on Sarkozy to yield to
calls for such a public clash of ideas.


"He does not have the right to say no. This debate is not for the
convenience of the candidates, it's to inform the citizen," he
said.


The journalists have accused public TV directors of shirking
their responsibility by hiding behind the argument that a
12-candidate debate would be logistically complicated to
organise.


Veteran political commentator Alain Duhamel said an Internet
debate would be useful, but a televised debate even better.


"It would take time to ensure that all the candidates get equal
air time," said Duhamel in an interview to the popular Le
Parisien newspaper.


But he added: "It's worth the time and effort for democracy."


Duhamel suggested holding three debates with four candidates or
four with three contenders.


Televised election debates have taken place in France between the
two contenders facing off in the second round.


President Jacques Chirac however refused to hold a debate with
far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen in the 2002 election, saying
that he would not dignify his extremist views with such an
exchange.


With a little more than two weeks left before the first round of
voting, polls show between 37 percent and 53 percent of voters
are undecided, with women and voters under 35 among the most
uncertain about their choice.

