

Ukraine's ruling party offered multi-million dollar bribes to
opposition lawmakers to lure them to join the governing
coalition, the country's former prime minister said in an
interview published Friday.


Speaking to The Times, former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko
also said that others had been threatened or offered ministerial
jobs.


"They put pressure on the businesses of deputies and their
families by withholding VAT (Value-Added Tax) refunds and pushing
them to bankruptcy ... Or they bought them by promising jobs in
government, which is why they have almost doubled the number of
ministerial posts," Tymoshenko told the daily.


She continued: "People were also literally paid. Deputies from
our faction ... told us that they were offered five million
dollars (3.7 million euros) to cross the floor. Not every person
can resist that. Corruption in this young, fragile democracy is a
very serious evil."


Were Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych's Regions party to control
300 of the 450 parliamentary seats, it would be able to over-rule
presidential vetos, and amend the constitution.


Her comments came just days after President Viktor Yushchenko
dissolved parliament in the latest step in the ongoing power-
struggle between him and Yanukovych, his rival in the 2004 Orange
Revolution.


Yushchenko has in recent days also accused his rival Yanukovych
of being power- hungry.


Tymoshenko, now a rival to Yushchenko, was his ally during the
2004 Orange Revolution.


Tymoshenko, meanwhile, said that the elections in the country,
scheduled for May 27, would go ahead "with or without the Party
of the Regions."


"What is happening in Ukraine today is not chaos. It is very
difficult and unpredictable but I strongly believe that every
step we take is a step towards real democracy in Ukraine," she
said.


"The President did not close his ears to the gross violations of
the constitution, he refused to allow Ukraine to make a u-turn to
the Soviet past. He defended the future.


"The elections will be in less than 60 days and this is the price
we have to pay to save Ukraine for its new democratic European
future. It's quite a modest price."

