

Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's investment group Thursday
offered DaimlerChrysler 4.5 billion dollars (3.3 billion euros)
in cash to buy its struggling Chrysler unit.


Kerkorian's personal holding company Tracinda Corp. said in a
statement the offer would aim to "build and strengthen Chrysler
as an independent entity."


The casino mogul, who failed in his 1995 hostile takeover bid of
Chrysler, indicated his firm would offer an equity partnership to
the United Auto Workers and senior management of Chrysler as a
means of gaining their commitment to his long-term solution.


But Tracinda said the offer hinges on reaching a deal with
DaimlerChrysler on sharing Chrysler's massive pension and health
care liabilities and getting the UAW to agree to a "new
satisfactory collective bargaining agreement" in negotiations
this fall.


"Tracinda believes by taking a long-term approach to solving
Chrysler's problems, it can become a robust and lasting, stand-
alone entity," the statement added.


Tracinda offered DaimlerChrysler a 100 million dollar (74.5
million euros) deposit in exchange for exclusive due diligence
rights, which it said it could complete in 60 days.


DaimlerChrysler spokesman Han Tjan declined to comment on the
Tracinda bid but reiterated chairman Dieter Zetsche's statements
Wednesday confirming that the company is in talks with interested
third parties and that "all options" are on the table.


A representative from the United Auto Workers was not immediately
available for comment.


Kerkorian, who last made headlines with his failed bid to push
General Motors Corp. into an alliance with Renault-Nissan, was
Chrysler's largest individual shareholder at the time of the 1998
merger with Daimler-Benz.


He later launched a lawsuit trying to recover billions in damages
after he said the companies misled investors about the nature of
the deal.


Nine years down the line, what was originally flagged as a "dream
wedding" of Daimler and Chrysler now appears to be on the rocks.


In what appeared to be a last-ditch attempt to turn the unit
around, DaimlerChrysler unveiled in February plans to slash
13,000 more jobs and close two more plants at its loss-making US
subsidiary and said it would consider "all options."


Chief executive Dieter Zetsche confirmed Wednesday that it was in
talks over a possible sale of Chrysler but revealed few details
at the group's annual meeting in Berlin. A number of shareholders
at the meeting called for a rapid sale.


Analysts estimate Chrysler's value at between five and seven
billion dollars, compared with its purchase price of more than 35
billion dollars.


Despite a series of restructuring plans, Chrysler posted an
operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5 billion dollars) last
year as consumers shied away from the fuel-hungry trucks and
sports utility vehicles that had dominated its offerings.


The company is reportedly considering firm offers from private
equity firms Cerberus and Blackstone, and Canadian car parts
maker Magna, which is also likely to team up with an investment
fund.


The head of the Canadian Auto Workers has expressed a preference
for Magna out of concern that a private group would be less
committed to building the business.


Tracinda said in a letter to Zetsche that "a private ownership
approach is in the best interest of all Chrysler constituencies."


Tracinda representative Jerry York said it would take five to
seven years to rebuild Chrysler by shifting the product mix
towards "greener" segments, improving product quality to
eliminate a consumer bias towards Asian products and speeding up
the introduction of new models in order to compete with Asian
automakers.


Tracinda's attempt to get the union to accept an equity stake as
a way to diffuse health care costs could bode well for the other
US automakers, said JP Morgan analyst Himanshu Patel.


"If the UAW proves supportive of Tracinda's bid, we think it
could have positive ramifications for GM and Ford, as it may
signal the union's willingness to negotiate solutions to
healthcare at the upcoming contract renewal talks," he wrote in a
research report.


DaimlerChrysler shares closed up 5.26 percent at 84.80 dollars.


Kerkorian was ranked 26th in a Forbes magazine list of the
wealthiest Americans, with a net worth estimated at nine billion
dollars. His chief holding is MGM Mirage, which owns about half
of the hotel rooms on the Las Vegas strip.

