

International ratings agency Fitch said Thursday it may downgrade
Latvia's credit status to reflect jitters about economic
overheating in the Baltic state whose economic growth is the
highest in the EU.


Fitch said that it was changing its outlook from stable to
negative, although for the moment it was holding its long-term
foreign and local currency ratings for Latvia's debt at A- and A
respectively.


"The outlook change reflects the increased risk of an abrupt
adjustment in capital and financial flows or a prolonged, painful
slowdown in economic growth," it said in a statement.


"While the Latvian government's new anti-inflation plan is an
encouraging initial policy response to the country's growing
macroeconomic imbalances, the plan may not be sufficient to
restore the economy to a sustainable path," the agency warned.


Latvia has experienced rapid growth since breaking free from the
Soviet Union in 1991 -- last year the economy grew by 11.9
percent, the fastest rate since independence.


The GDP figures put Latvia at the top of the growth league table
in the 27-member European Union, which the Baltic state joined
three years ago.


But runaway growth has been accompanied by high inflation, which
in February was running at 7.3 percent on an annual comparison --
the second-highest in the EU.


Fitch noted that Latvia's current account deficit was the highest
in the EU at 21 percent of GDP in 2006.


That macroeconomic cocktail has already brought warnings of
overheating from organisations such as the International Monetary
Fund and Fitch's rival ratings agency Standard and Poor's.


In recent weeks, Latvia's central bank has intervened to support
the country's currency, the lat, which since January 1, 2005 has
been pegged to the euro within a tight range of -1.0-1.0 percent
of 0.702804 lat to 1.0 euro.


The peg was part of Latvia's plan to join the eurozone by 2008 --
a target which has since been shelved, and which now may not be
reached until 2012 at the earliest, said Fitch.


Last month, the Latvian government unveiled a plan aimed at
cutting inflation to between two and three percent by 2010-11.


Latvia also aims to achieve a balanced budget this year, compared
to its earlier target of a 1.3 percent budget deficit -- but
Fitch said this "represents only a moderate fiscal tightening."


In contrast, neighbouring Estonia delivered a budget surplus of
3.8 percent in 2006, with real GDP growth some half a percentage
point lower than Latvia, Fitch noted.


The Latvian government's plan would aim to dampen consumption by
restricting personal loans and mortgages and also by taxing some
property deals.


"Fitch takes a positive view of the proposed changes to real-
estate taxation and the introduction of measures to control
credit growth and is encouraged by proposals to restrict the
rapid growth of public-sector wages, although details of this
last measure remain uncertain," the agency said.


Latvia has a favourably low level of public debt, which stood at
11 percent at the end of 2006, Fitch noted.


It cautioned, however: "With over three quarters of loans
denominated in foreign currency, a 'hard landing' could impair
household borrowers' capacity to make repayments, putting strain
on the Latvian banking system."


"Fitch believes that a smooth macroeconomic adjustment is still
possible for the Latvian economy but that the likelihood of this
is now lower. Indications that such an adjustment is taking place
could lead to the outlook being revised back to stable.


"Nevertheless, the absence of a firmer resolve to address
overheating could potentially lead to a downgrade."


Fitch has a scale for its ratings running from AAA to D, which
reflects the ability of countries and companies to repay their
debts.


A rating of A means a borrower has a strong capacity to repay its
debts, but is slightly more susceptible to changes in its economy
than the best AAA borrowers, while A- indicates concerns are
somewhat higher.

