

German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble on Thursday said
stumbling blocks remained to reaching an accord between the US
and the EU on sharing aircraft passenger data to prevent
terrorist attacks.


"The EU has certain views and the United States hold different
views," Schaeuble said after a two-day meeting of EU and US
justice and interior ministers in Berlin.


"This has to do with the basic question of which data we need and
which limits we should set and here we need to come to an
understanding."


EU Justice Commissioner Franco Frattini said the EU insisted that
access be given only to data that is necessary to prevent
terrorist attacks and that the purpose for which the information
is used be clearly defined.


The 27-member bloc also wanted assurances from the Americans
about who would use the data and who would supervise the users to
prevent abuse of the information, Frattini said.


"We should know who exactly will receive the data," he told a
press conference.


Washington and the European Union are trying to reach an accord
on passenger name records (PNR) by July to replace a temporary
agreement which expires then.


US Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Washington
realised that there were fears on the other side of the Atlantic
about giving state agencies access to information gathered by
airlines.


"It is privacy issue. What matters for the Europeans is whether
the airlines have the right to transmit information to us."


Chertoff said he believed however that a new agreement will be
adopted in July.


He argued that most of the September 11, 2001 hijackers,
including the suspected mastermind Mohammed Atta, would have been
denied entry to the United States if the PNR system had been
operational six years ago.


"Two of them were already on a US watchlist, three others,
including Mohammed Atta used the same address and five others
used the same telephone number as Atta," he said.


"So we would have been able to build a chain of links that should
have enabled us to identify most of the hijackers."


Some of the key players in the attacks on the World Trade Center,
including Atta, lived in the German city of Hamburg.


A working group has been established to find a compromise that
will satisfy the US demand for better information sharing while
appeasing European concerns about privacy.

