

Top Indian defence officials flew Thursday to Pakistan for fresh
talks on demilitarisation of an icy glacier in Kashmir where
freezing temperatures have claimed more lives than actual combat.


India insists that "iron-clad" evidence of Pakistani military
positions on the 6,300-metre (20,800-feet) Siachen area of the
disputed region is needed before demilitarisation of the world's
highest battlefield can begin.


Indian Defence Secretary Shekhar Dutt Thursday led a nine-member
team to the talks with his newly appointed Pakistani counterpart,
Kamran Rasool, in Islamabad, Indian defence ministry officials
said.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh earlier on Thursday called a
meeting of his security cabinet to chalk out a framework for the
two-day talks which begin Friday, they said.


"The cabinet brief given to the defence secretary is clear-cut on
the issue of India's position on the need for an authentication
of (Pakistani) troops positions on the Siachen," a delegation
member said before leaving New Delhi.


Singh later told reporters in New Delhi that he was "hopeful" of
a positive outcome, when asked about his expectations from the
Islamabad meet, the Press Trust of India news agency reported.


"There are immense opportunities. We are working together to
resolve our differences," Singh said.


Pakistan, which claims all of Kashmir, fears that setting out its
positions would be tacit acceptance of India's claims to Siachen
and the area as a whole.


The two countries have fought two of their three wars over
Kashmir.


India and Pakistan, which fought a fierce skirmish on Siachen in
1987, have held several rounds of discussions on the glacier
since the resumption of peace talks between two nuclear-armed
south Asian rivals in January 2004.


"Maybe things could be easier this time as they now have a civil
servant as defence secretary," the Indian official said of
Rasool, the first Pakistani civilian bureaucrat to occupy the
strategic post since 1996.


Rasool took charge on Wednesday from retired Pakistani general
Tariq Waseem Ghazi, who had led previous rounds of unsuccessful
talks on Siachen with India.


The two sides fought regular artillery duels in the region up to
November 2003 when a ceasefire was agreed along the heavily-
militarised Line of Control.


Analysts say Siachen is of little strategic value, but the Indian
army  which has around 5,000 troops and has occupied most of the
glacier since 1987 refuses to thin its forces despite the high
costs involved.


Experts say Pakistan has less than half the number of Indian
soldiers on the frigid wasteland where temperatures plummet to
minus 50 degrees Celsius (minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit).

