

Sevilla can continue to dream about becoming only the second team
to retain the UEFA Cup despite a narrow 2-1 win over Tottenham
Hotspur in the quarter-final first leg here on Thursday.


However, the Spaniards were dealt a very early blow when Robbie
Keane got one of the quickest goals seen in European competition
this season.


The Republic of Ireland international scored after just 65
seconds but Sevilla bounced back with goals later in the first
half from Fredi Kanoute, the Spanish first division's top scorer,
and Alexandr Kerzhakov.


The result means the tie between arguably the two strongest teams
remaining in this year's competition remains in the balance ahead
of the second leg at White Hart Lane next Thursday.


Spurs failed to get the draw that their coach Martin Jol had set
as a realistic target but still have a valuable away goal in
their pocket.


The prize for the ultimate victors will almost certainly be a
semi-final matchup against another Spanish side Osasuna, after
the Pamplona-based side romped to a 3-0 away win at Bayer
Leverkusen earlier on Thursday.


Keane shocked Sevilla when he evaded their offside trap and
latched onto a chip forward by Dimitar Berbatov before seeing his
first shot rebound off the 'keeper and then knocking the ball in
at the second attempt.


Tottenham looked set to take control of the game and give
themselves a huge advantage to take back to London but Sevilla,
helped by the inspirational hard work of Daniel Alves down the
right wing, got back gradually into the game.


Kanoute got the Sevilla crowd, which was several thousand short
of capacity because of the simultaneous Easter celebrations in
the city, singing again, with a penalty against his old club
after 19 minutes.


The Luxembourg referee Alain Hamer questionably judged that Spurs
goalkeeper Paul Robinson had impeded Adriano, although many will
consider that the England international had got his hands to the
ball before the Brazilian tripped over his diving body.


Regardless of the rights and wrongs of the decision, and after
the Spurs players had stopped protesting, Kanoute stepped up and
picked his target before side- footed the ball home from the
spot.


The goal seemed to swing the game in Sevilla's favour.


A defensive mistake by Michael Dawson, who headed the ball
straight to Julien Escude, who in turn nodded the ball forward
for Alexsandr Kerzhakov to head home from the edge of the six
yard box put Sevilla ahead after 36 minutes.


Spurs pressed hard after the break, searching for an equaliser,
and Sevilla's normally solid defence had several nervous moments
but held firm before the visitors ran out of ideas towards the
end of the game.


At the other end, Kanoute showed few signs of his persistent
groin strain and almost put Sevilla further ahead with a header
20 minutes from the end but that was the closest either side got
to scoring in the second half.


Sadly. once again, there was also the unpleasant sight of British
fans clashing with Spanish police in this season's UEFA Cup.


Last month the police baton charged Rangers supporters at Osasuna
and after 32 minutes Spurs fans tried to get at taunting Sevilla
supporters and ended up battling with the intervening police
instead - this saw according to medical staff eight fans taken to
hospital including seven from the English club.


This time the local security forces were much more restrained in
the face of provocation which saw seats and stones thrown at them
by a handful of the estimated 4,000 Spurs supporters and the
situation soon calmed down.

