

European football's governing body, UEFA, has launched an
investigation into the crowd violence which marred the Champions
League quarter final between AS Roma and Manchester United on
Wednesday.


"UEFA has opened an investigation into the incidents that
occurred at the UCL (Champions League) match AS Roma - Manchester
United," the governing body said in a statement on Thursday.


"UEFA is currently gathering evidence and will be studying the
official reports of the referee, delegate and security officer in
detail before announcing any further action," it added.


A UEFA spokesman, who declined to be named, told AFP that a
decision on whether or not to go ahead with full disciplinary
charges was likely to be taken after the Easter break, on
Tuesday.


Fans from both sides were involved in running battles outside the
stadium in Rome and police baton-charged United supporters after
new disturbances erupted in the stands following Roma's first
goal in their 2-1 victory.


The UEFA spokesman said it was still unclear what charges might
be pressed.


About 20 people were injured, including 13 United fans who were
hospitalised, one with a stab wound to the neck, a spokeswoman
for the British Embassy in the Italian capital reported.


The incidents came only a day after the Italian government passed
new laws in a bid to stamp out mounting football hooliganism in
recent months.


UEFA's new president, Michel Platini, has vowed "zero tolerance"
for violence on and off the field, and recently wrote to top
clubs and all federations in Europe to underline his stance.


One of Platini's senior advisors, William Gaillard, who is
dealing with the security issue, underlined that the footballing
authority still had to receive official accounts from its
delegates at the match.


But Gaillard - who was in Rome on Wednesday evening - informally
highlighted key issues such as the presence of ticketless United
fans, fighting away from the stadium and in the stands, and fans
throwing plastic bottles at police.


Italian police had escorted United supporters with tickets into
the Olympic stadium while riot police also remained in the
stands, he said.


"The fact that they were escorted in and protected in the first
place is a good point," he told AFP.


"Everything was done logistically for the ones that were the
'official' fans, to bring them in in the safest possible way and
to bring them out in the safest possible way," he explained.


"Mr Platini and UEFA for years have always said that we can't
prefer the use of soft policing by stewards."


Italian media reported on Thursday that alcohol was on sale near
the stadium despite an official ban by local authorities.


"It's quite possible that fans had access to alcohol not far from
the stadium but this still has to be determined," Gaillard said.


"There are always hawkers at football matches in Italy who sell
things like that. It's one thing for the Italian fans because
they don't drink, but of course with English fans it's another
issue," he added.


Manchester United has already been fined by UEFA this year for
the behaviour of travelling fans following incidents that marred
their Champions League tie against Lille in February, when French
riot police used tear gas during the match.


Lille - which was also fined for security violations and
incorrect behaviour by players - had complained about ticketing
problems with United supporters.


World governing body FIFA's president Sepp Blatter warned last
month that violence on and off the pitch had driven football to a
crossroads.

