

Regulars at an English pub where one of the sailors released by
Iran was a barman toasted his liberty Thursday, while wondering
what impact the ordeal would have on the laid-back local hero.


Nathan Summers, 21, is being reunited with his family in private
at a naval base in Devon, south-west England, after touching down
on British soil the day after President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
announced the group's release.


He was the talk of the bar at the Cornubia Hotel in his hometown
of Hayle, Cornwall, south-west England, where he worked pulling
pints until he signed up for the navy aged 19, two years ago.


Like many other shops, restaurants and bars in the pretty coastal
resort, the Cornubia is still festooned with the yellow ribbons
which locals put up to show solidarity with the 15 sailors and
marines when they were in captivity.


The bows decorate everything in the hotel from the taps
delivering pints of local bitter to wooden beams, where pictures
of Summers, plus a transcript of Psalm 23 from the Bible -- "The
Lord's My Shepherd" -- were pinned up.


But while the ribbons were a symbol of hope when the group was
still in custody, they have now become an emblem of celebration,
along with the huge, spray- painted "Welcome Home Nathan" banner
mounted outside the hotel.


Landlady Hilary Penfold, who employed Summers, said the close-
knit community was already planning a welcome home party for him.


"We'll have a party here. We had a party last night and I've got
a really bad hangover -- we were awful," she told AFP.


"When he's ready for it, it will be massive.


"Nathan's a local boy and he is such a nice person. He's a real
gent. He won't swear in front of me, he loves his mum, he's a
really nice person."


She added that she had not yet contacted Summers' family as she
wanted to let them be reunited with their son in peace, adding:
"It's their time now."


"Nathan will just come here when he's ready," she said, stressing
it might be several days before he returned to Hayle.


"We've no idea whether Nathan's going to stay in the navy -- I
don't know, I honestly don't know."


One of Summers' closest friends, Tristan Lawer, was, though,
clear that his friend would not back out of the forces.


"Before he went away, he was a bit annoyed because he had all
this training and nothing to do with it and this was his first
big time away so he was quite excited," he said.


"I think he'll stay in, definitely. I think he will do it again.
I don't think it would have affected him enough to quit the
navy."


Summers was one of the many youngsters from the south-west of
England -- traditionally less prosperous than the south-east,
which includes London -- to be attracted by a life in the forces,
Lawer added.


"The main thing about people joining the forces down here is that
there's not much money when it comes to any other job," he said.


"You can't get a good job down here earning a lot of money and if
you do, you're very lucky."


Cornwall -- where many residents cherish their Celtic heritage
and refer to the county by its ancient name of Kernow -- is "not
like England, but like a little bubble" because of an easy-going
attitude to life, Lawer said.


The Iran crisis was, though, enough to worry even the most
relaxed of locals, and its resolution has lifted a cloud from
over the town of Hayle -- as the number of toasts being raised to
Summers at the Cornubia Thursday showed.


"There's definitely a big sense of relief. Since we've got a
banner up outside, most of the cars beep outside the pub. It's a
big thing for Hayle having him come back," Lawer said.


"It's what we've been waiting for."

