

Fast bowling legend Curtley Ambrose has told West Indies' World
Cup bowlers to avoid trying to be too ambitious on the
Caribbean's unhelpful pitches.


"Just keep it simple. The pitches nowadays aren't really
conducive to fast bowling and it can be a big turn off. I would
say to the guys, just try and forget about the pitch and go out
there and do the best you can," said the 43 -year-old Ambrose.


The West Indies have lost all three of their World Cup Super
Eights matches so far and must win their next three, as well as
rely on other teams' results, if they are to have any hope of
making the semi-finals.


The hosts have just two points in the standings, courtesy of
their win over fellow qualifiers Ireland in the group stages.


West Indies bowlers conceded 322 in their first Super Eights
match against Australia, which they lost by 103 runs, a match
where Ambrose felt the bowlers tried too many things.


"Bowl a proper line and length consistently, you will get wickets
and will be successful. They tried too many things against
Australia," said Ambrose, who took 405 Test and 225 one-day
wickets during his illustrious career.


Surprisingly, the hosts dropped spearhead Jerome Taylor in their
second match against New Zealand to accommodate extra batsman
Lendl Simmons, but still lost by seven wickets.


Ambrose said dropping a bowler was a blunder.


"I have always been of the opinion that you should never weaken
your bowling to strengthen the batting, I figure if the batsmen
you have selected can't do the job, then you replace them," he
said.


"I really don't comment on selection but I am going to say
'support the guys' whichever team is playing out there."


West Indies also lost to Sri Lanka by 113 runs - a defeat which
further hit their chances of reaching the last four.


Ambrose said like all other West Indian fans he too was upset
with events at the World Cup.


"I can't say that I am a happy man at the moment because we are
not doing too well and as a West Indian and a patriot I can't
stand losing," said the fast bowling legend.


As the host nation, the defeats have left millions of Caribbean
fans disappointed, former players looking for scapegoats and
organisers fearing for the financial implications of seeing even
emptier stadiums for the remaining matches.


West Indies next play world number one South Africa in Grenada on
April 10 where a defeat will confirm their elimination from the
tournament.

