

A top Bangladesh election commissioner Thursday ruled out new
polls before late 2008 in order to have time to revise the
country's voter list.


"We will need at least 18 months to prepare the voters list.
Pragmatically speaking, this is the least amount of time we need
to prepare the ground for credible elections," deputy election
commissioner Shakhwat Hossain said.


After months of violent political turmoil, Bangladesh President
Iajuddin Ahmed cancelled polls slated for late January and
declared a state of emergency, paving the way for the
installation of a military-backed government.


The new government vowed to clean up politics and installed new
chiefs at the election commission to carry out sweeping reforms,
including coming up with a new voter list with no errors.


The main opposition Awami League had complained ahead of the
January polls that the voter list prepared by a previous election
commission contained millions of fake names.


It also alleged the then chief election commissioner supported
the outgoing Bangladesh Nationalist Party-led coalition.


On Thursday Hossain, appointed by the new government, said
concerns would be addressed in the new list. There would also be
improved voter ID, he added.


"It is a huge task and we want to do it the best way possible.
The United Nations is helping us with consultants and financing
of the huge project," he said. "We are taking time because we
don't want to hold farcical elections."


The government, now led by former central bank governor
Fakhruddin Ahmed, has launched a massive anti-graft crackdown in
the past three months which has included the arrests of more than
45 high-profile politicians.


It also banned political activity for an indefinite period.


But Hossain said the commission had asked the government to lift
the ban so that it could hold talks with the political parties on
the proposed reforms.


"We urged the law adviser (current justice minister) to lift the
ban on indoor politics. We cannot hold talks with the parties
unless the ban is withdrawn. He said he would discuss the issue
with the head of the interim government," Hossain said.


"In the meantime, we will talk with the civil society about the
reforms. And everything we are doing is to hold free and fair
elections in the country."


On Thursday, the commission also unveiled tough new candidate
eligibility rules, saying these would be enacted by July this
year.


Under the reforms, the government would bar loan and utility bill
defaulters from taking part in any future polls while political
parties would have to declare the sources of their funds.

