

John Buchanan, the coach of reigning champions Australia,
believes his side will all but "eliminate" old rivals England
from the World Cup if they win Sunday's Super Eights clash.


Australia are unbeaten in their five matches at the tournament
and top the second round standings as they bid for an
unprecedented third straight World Cup title.


England, by contrast, have yet to beat a Test nation after losing
to New Zealand first time out and going down to an agonising two
run defeat against Sri Lanka here on Wednesday.


They did though manage to beat the world champions 2-0 in
Australia during the finals of the CB series in February.


"We're keen to make amends for that. But that's past history. Now
we're in the West Indies and we've got a very important game for
us," said Buchanan.


"If we manage to come out on top of that well, we virtually
eliminate another side out of the tournament and that's pretty
important for us."


Buchanan said Australia's win over England in a 13-a-side warm-up
match in St Vincent had in part atoned for their shock reverse on
home soil.


He added: "I still viewed St Vincent as a proper one-day game,
although you could play a couple of extra players. I thought we
played pretty well there. I think both teams have progressed
since the Commonwealth Bank Series."


And Buchanan, formerly coach at English county side Middlesex,
said England's desperation for victory could work in their
favour.


"England at this stage are playing knockout cricket. Every game
for them is a knockout game and that puts them on the razor's
edge.


"I think it will be an exceptional contest. Any side that's
playing for its life in the tournament, it understands fairly
well what it has to do."


Looking ahead to Sunday's match at the Sir Vivian Richards
Stadium, Buchanan said England had a long batting order and
identified Ian Bell as a key figure.


"Bell's come in at No 3 and played a really pivotal role. He
plays well with (Kevin) Pietersen and they've put some good
partnerships together."


Australia must decide before Sunday's match whether to play an
extra batsman or bowler following a left calf injury sustained by
all-rounder Shane Watson during last week's 10-wicket win against
Bangladesh.


Queensland all-rounder James Hopes is on standby but, in the
short term, either batsman Brad Hodge or pace bowler Mitchell
Johnson could come in at the weekend.


Australia could also turn to the medium-pace of batsman Andrew
Symonds. But Buchanan wasn't sure if Symonds, who also bowls off-
spin, would be fit enough to bowl his quicker deliveries
following an arm injury.


"We're still undecided," said Buchanan of the choice between a
batsman or a bowler.


"Both combinations present some strengths and some weaknesses.
The upside of all of that is that it is making us re-think
although the preference would be to have a fit Shane Watson."


And as for Symonds bowling medium-pace, Buchanan said: "I think
it's probably a little bit early for him to do that at this
stage.


"Andrew is Andrew and once he takes the field if he feels he
needs to bowl medium-pace, he'll be talking strongly to the
captain to say 'give me the opportunity to do it'."

