

Eight people including five Taliban and two policemen were killed
Thursday in the latest violence in Afghanistan, officials said.


An interpreter working with NATO-led troops was killed and his
three colleagues were injured when unknown attackers fired at
their vehicle outside the eastern city of Khost, provincial
official Badi-ul Zaman Sabarai said.


Sabarai blamed the attack -- which happened while they were on
their way to work and did not involve NATO forces -- on Taliban
remnants who have been waging a guerrilla-style insurgency in
southern and eastern Afghanistan.


"The enemies attacked these innocent translators. One of them was
killed and three others were injured," he told AFP.


A doctor in the city's hospital said three injured men were
admitted to his hospital and a body was also brought there.


Taliban rebels have threatened to kill Afghans working for the
international troops who are in Afghanistan mainly under the UN-
mandated NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


In the southern province of Ghazni a police official was killed
and nine others were wounded in two separate attacks by Taliban,
provincial police commander Alishah Ahmadzai told AFP.


Afghan police retaliated killing five Taliban fighters and
injuring four others, he said.


Separately a policeman was killed and seven others were injured
when their patrol vehicle struck a roadside bomb in southern
province of Kandahar, provincial police chief Esmatullah Alizai
said.


He said the bomb, fitted with a remote-control device, was
detonated in Maiwand district, just outside the southern city, by
the "enemies of Afghanistan", a term Afghan officials use to
refer to Taliban militants.


The Taliban are active in southern and eastern Afghanistan
despite a massive operation launched against them a month ago by
ISAF and Afghan security forces in the south.


More than 10,000 US-led troops are also based in parts of
Afghanistan mainly hunting Taliban and other extremist groups.


Scores of Afghan nationals have been killed by Taliban for their
affiliations to foreign troops and aid organisations.

