

British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Thursday that no deal was
struck with Iran to free 15 sailors and marines, as he deplored
the involvement of "elements" of the Tehran regime in terrorism.


The group was freed "without any deal, without any negotiation,
without any side agreement of any nature whatever," he said
outside his 10 Downing Street office.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad claimed Wednesday that
Britain had promised in a letter not to repeat what Tehran says
was an incursion into its territorial waters which prompted their
detention.


Speaking at the exact moment the detainees touched down safely at
London's Heathrow airport, Blair's unforgiving tone on terrorism
cast a striking contrast with the euphoria surrounding the safe
return of the captives.


While he said he "rejoiced" at the return of the sailors and
marines, he said Britons would also "grieve and mourn" the death
of four British soldiers in Iraq, announced moments previously.


This showed the "sober and ugly reality" of terrorism in Iraq,
Blair said.


"It's far too early to say that the particular terrorist act that
killed our forces was an act committed by terrorists who were
backed by any elements of the Iranian regime, so I make no
allegation in respect of that particular incident," he said.


"But the general picture, as I have said before, is there are
elements at least of the Iranian regime that are backing,
financing, arming terrorism in Iraq."


He went on to say that Britain had pursued a "dual-track
strategy" -- both bilateral and multilateral -- to free the group
over the last few weeks.


The crisis had opened up "new and interesting" lines of
communication between Britain and Iran which should continue to
be pursued, he said.


But he added: "The international community has got to remain
absolutely steadfast in enforcing its will, whether it is in
respect of nuclear weapons or whether it is in respect of the
support of any part of the Iranian regime for terrorism."


After landing on home soil at Heathrow, just west of London, the
sailors and marines were being taken to Royal Marines base
Chivenor, in Devon, for a debrief and private reunion with
families.


The base is 70 miles (113 kilometres) from Devonport naval base,
the home of HMS Cornwall, the ship which the crew were serving on
when they were captured.

