

Right-wing French presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy on
Thursday called off a campaign stop in the eastern city of Lyon
where his planned visit had drawn a crowd of hostile
demonstrators.


Some 200 to 300 people carrying banners reading "You are not
welcome" had massed in the city's Croix-Rousse neighbourhood, a
trendy cosmopolitan district where Sarkozy was scheduled to visit
a chocolate maker's shop.


Many were chanting the word "racaille" (rabble), used by Sarkozy
in 2005 to describe young delinquents from the suburbs but
interpreted by many as a racial slur towards the wider immigrant
population.


Speaking later in the Lyon suburb of Villeurbanne, Sarkozy said
he had missed the stop due to a flight delay, and suggested the
protest was staged by left- wing activists.


"My plane was late. I am going to go there later -- I wouldn't
want to disappoint the extreme-left," he said.


One of the protestors, Gerard, an employee of the local Socialist
town hall, told reporters: "This is the home of the Canuts
(textile workers who staged a series of 19th-century revolts). We
don't want a bosses' representative here."


Another said she was angry at televised comments in which Sarkozy
suggested France needed to explain to Muslim immigrants not to
slaughter sheep in their bathtubs: "We haven't been slaughtering
sheep for a long time," she said.


Karim, a Muslim university student, took issue with Sarkozy's
support for affirmative action for ethnic minorities.


"Positive discrimination amounts to saying that an Arab can't
succeed without help from the state," he charged.


Sarkozy, the candidate of the governing UMP party, is leading in
the polls ahead of the Socialist Segolene Royal for the
presidential election, taking place in two rounds on April 22 and
May 6.


During his time as interior minister, he championed a tough line
on law and order and immigration that is highly popular among his
supporters, but has made him a hate-figure on the left and among
youths in France's troubled suburbs.


Sarkozy later Thursday held a rally in Lyon which was also
attended by President Jacques Chirac's wife Bernadette. Her
presence, coming weeks after Chirac officially backed Sarkozy's
election bid, was seen as an important endorsement.


Chirac's wife was "loved and respected by the French people,"
Sarkozy said, adding that he was "very pleased" she could attend
the meeting.


"She has always been very friendly with me even when there were
political tensions," he said. "Never has there been a personal
rift."


Herself a regional councillor for Sarkozy's ruling Union for a
Popular Movement (UMP), the 73-year-old Bernadette Chirac is a
popular and respected figure among party members.

