

The European single currency surged past 1.34 dollars on Thursday
to strike its highest level since March 14, 2005.


At around 1350 GMT, the euro rose as high as 1.3441 dollars,
compared with 1.3369 dollars in earlier European trading.


The US currency had been hit overnight by soft economic data,
while the euro has been buoyed in recent weeks by positive
economic news and favourable interest rate differentials,
analysts said.


"It's a move that's been building up for some time," said Ian
Stannard, currency strategist at BNP Paribas.


He said that there had been "no new news" which triggered the
move higher, other than the contrasting economic outlooks in the
eurozone and the United States.


Stannard added that "the data from Europe was continuing to come
on the strong side" in contrast with the "mixed" data flow from
the US.


Foreign exchange market participants meanwhile are awaiting
publication of key US jobs data on Friday after disappointing
service sector figures in the world's largest economy, dealers
said.


CMC Markets chief analyst Ashraf Laidi said a rise in the
unemployment rate would indicate future rate easing by the US
Federal Reserve.


"In the event that the jobless rate rises to 4.6 percent from 4.5
percent along with a payrolls (number) remaining lower than
110-120,000, markets will deem the report as an additional step
to a June rate cut," he said.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
in March, while the market had expected it to rise. The release
raised concerns that the US service sector could face trouble
along with manufacturing.


The dollar was dented overnight by the news, offsetting a boost
after Iran said it would free the 15 captured British sailors.


In recent weeks, the euro has drawn strength from expectations
that the European Central Bank (ECB) is likely to unleash further
rate hikes in future months -- while the Fed could cut US
borrowing costs.


The ECB had raised its key interest rate to a five-and-a-half-
year high of 3.75 percent last month and has signalled that a
further rise is possible some time soon.


In contrast, the Fed appeared to open the door to a cut in
interest rates last month as it kept rates unchanged at 5.25
percent.


Elsewhere, sterling fell against rival currencies after the Bank
of England held its key interest rate at 5.25 percent for the
third month in a row on Thursday.

