

Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's investment group said
Thursday it had offered DaimlerChrysler 4.5 billion dollars (3.3
billion euros) to buy its struggling Chrysler unit.


Kerkorian's personal holding company Tracinda Corp. said in a
statement the offer would aim to "build and strengthen Chrysler
as an independent entity."


The casino mogul, who failed in his 1995 hostile takeover bid of
Chrysler, said his firm would offer an equity partnership to the
United Auto Workers and senior management of Chrysler as a means
of gaining their commitment to a long-term solution.


"Tracinda believes by taking a long-term approach to solving
Chrysler's problems, it can become a robust and lasting, stand-
alone entity," the statement added.


The all-cash offer is subject to reaching a "new satisfactory
collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers
Union" and a due diligence period which Tracinda estimated would
take 60 days, a letter to DaimlerChrysler released by Tracinda
stated.


A DaimlerChrysler spokesman declined to comment on the Tracinda
bid but reiterated chairman Dieter Zetsche's statements Wednesday
confirming that the company is in talks with interested third
parties and that "all options" are on the table.


A representative from the United Auto Workers was not immediately
available for comment.


Kerkorian, who last made headlines with his failed bid to push
General Motors Corp. into an alliance with Renault-Nissan,
opposed the 1998 merger of DaimlerBenz and Chrysler and launched
a lawsuit trying to recover billions in damages after he said the
companies misled investors about the nature of the deal.


Nine years down the line, what was originally flagged as a "dream
wedding" of Daimler and Chrysler now appears to be on the rocks.


In what appeared to be a last-ditch attempt to turn the unit
around, DaimlerChrysler unveiled in February plans to slash
13,000 more jobs and close two more plants at its loss-making US
subsidiary and said it would consider "all options."


Chief executive Dieter Zetsche confirmed Wednesday that it was in
talks over a possible sale of Chrysler but revealed few details
at the group's annual meeting in Berlin. A number of shareholders
at the meeting called for a rapid sale.


The daily Detroit News reported that only three candidates had
submitted a firm offer by last week, private equity firms
Cerberus and Blackstone, and Canadian car parts maker Magna,
which is also likely to team up with an investment fund.


The newspaper said DaimlerChrysler aimed to start exclusive talks
with a potential buyer by the end of this month, and hoped to
raise around eight billion dollars (six billion euros) from the
sale.


Speculation has been rife that Chrysler would be put up for sale
after it turned in an operating loss of 1.12 billion euros (1.5
billion dollars) last year, despite repeated restructuring in
recent years.


Tracinda said in a letter to Zetsche that "a private ownership
approach is in the best interest of all Chrysler constituencies."


Tracinda representative Jerry York said it would take five to
seven years to rebuild Chrysler by shifting the product mix
towards "greener" segments, improving product quality to
eliminate a consumer bias towards Asian products and speeding up
the introduction of new models in order to compete with Asian
automakers.


Tracinda also offered DaimlerChrysler a 100 million dollar (74.5
million euros) deposit in exchange for exclusive due diligence
rights.


Kerkorian was ranked 26th in a Forbes magazine list of the
wealthiest Americans, with a net worth estimated at nine billion
dollars. His chief holding is MGM Mirage, which owns about half
of the hotel rooms on the Las Vegas strip.

