

Manchester United chiefs accused Italian police of a "severe
over-reaction" after they baton-charged supporters of the
Premiership club during their Champions League defeat at Roma.


United and Roma fans were involved in fighting outside the
Olympic Stadium before Wednesday's game and riot police used
batons and tear gas to subdue the visiting supporters when fresh
disturbances erupted during the quarter-final first leg, which
ended in a 2-1 victory for the Italian side.


Thirteen United fans were hospitalised, one with a stab wound to
the neck, as a result of the violence before and during the match
and UEFA, European football's governing body, have announced they
will investigate.


United are furious with the police's behaviour at the stadium and
they insist fans were attacked regardless of whether or not they
had been involved in fighting.


The English club admit they are powerless to take action against
the police, but they want supporters to submit statements to help
a governement investigation into the trouble.


A statement on United's website said: "The distressing scenes
witnessed in the Stadio Olimpico on Wednesday night shocked
everyone at Old Trafford.


"In what the Club views as a severe over-reaction, local police
handed out indiscriminate beatings to United supporters.


"In these circumstances, neither Manchester United nor AS Roma is
able to call the police to account.


"As a result, the Club warmly welcomes the Government examination
of the incident and will collect witness statements from fans to
submit to the Home Office."


Under Italian law, the local police are responsible for safety
within their major stadiums and the British Home Office said they
will gather information from all relevant sources before deciding
whether to approach UEFA about the incident.


Home Officer Minister Vernon Coaker told BBC Radio Five Live:
"The scenes that we saw on our television screens were extremely
concerning.


"And I would be interested to see the report that comes - not
only from Italian police but also from our own police officers
who were out there, from the Embassy to listen to the fans
themselves and indeed from the club to see what their view of
things is and we need some explanation of what actually took
place and the police response to it."


Rome's head of police, Achille Serra, insisted the police action
was a "justified response", and said there would be no inquiry
unless he were shown evidence of any alleged police brutality.


Italian Football Federation president Giancarlo Abete backed
Serra's comments and said: "The English press speak of heavy
handed police? We owe gratitude to our law enforcers and I don't
believe those who try to make games safe can be crucified in this
manner.


"I was not present at the Stadio Olimpico...but I will follow the
matter closely."


Mark Longden, chairman of the Independent Manchester United
Supporters Association, fears supporters will be killed in Italy
unless clubs and violent fans are hit with strong severe
punishments that will act as a deterrent.


"Enough is enough now," said Longden. "There can be no more
whitewashes, with 3,000 pounds fines here and 10,000 pounds fines
there.


"We have gone beyond that now. This is a time for decisive action
and if UEFA don't take it, I truly believe someone will get
killed.


"Questions must also be asked why the police were only on the
United side of the barrier. Surely there should have been some on
both sides because, while missiles were thrown from the United
end, our information is that people were only lobbing things back
that had been aimed at them in the first place."

