

The United States on Thursday welcomed Iran's release of 15
British captives but warned Tehran of possible new sanctions if
the Islamic republic does not freeze sensitive nuclear work.


US President George W. Bush spoke for about an hour by secure
video with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, said the White
House, and tellingly praised London, not Tehran, for the end of
the tense standoff.


"The president welcomed the safe return of the British personnel
who had been detained in Iran. He also commended the British on
their resolve in bringing the situation to a peaceful
resolution," said national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe.


At the same time, the US State Department refused to rule out a
face-to-face meeting between US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice and her Iranian counterpart Manouchehr Mottaki on the
sidelines of an international conference on Iraq in early May.


"We have said from the beginning, when this first surfaced, that
if there would be a ministerial conference, that we are not going
to exclude any particular diplomatic interaction," said spokesman
Sean McCormack.


But the United States made clear that the release of the seven
British marines and eight sailors would not ease international
pressure on Iran to suspend key nuclear activities, and hinted at
possible new sanctions.


"I would view the detention of the British sailors as not in line
with their willingness to work with the international community,"
said Johndroe.


"What would show that they are more in line with the
international community is to comply with the UN Security Council
resolutions, and suspend their uranium enrichment and
reprocessing activities," said Johndroe.


"We'd be hopeful to not have to go back to the UN Security
Council for an additional sanction regime," the spokesman said as
Bush prepared to celebrate Easter on his Texas ranch.


Shortly after he spoke, Iranian state television reported that
Iran's nuclear chief Ali Larijani on Thursday told the European
Union there was no chance that Tehran would suspend uranium
enrichment.


He made the comments in a telephone conversation with the EU's
top diplomat, Javier Solana, it said.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran is ready to negotiate only on non-
diversion (of its nuclear programme for military purposes) and
not on its nuclear rights," Larijani told Solana according to an
official on the supreme council for national security, which
Larijani heads.


On another front, US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday
the United States was not inclined to release five Iranians
captured in Iraq and accused Iran of supporting Iraqi insurgents.


"Well, I think there's no inclination right now to let them go,"
Gates told reporters, when asked about the fate of the five
Iranians held since January.


US officials have rejected any linkage between their fate and
that of the newly freed British personnel.


The seven marines and eight sailors flew home Thursday after
their 13-day ordeal, which began when they were seized in the
northern Gulf on March 23, while carrying out what London said
was "routine" anti-smuggling operations.


"We're pleased that they released the sailors. We just wish they
hadn't detained them in the first place," Johndroe said.

