

World oil prices fell on profit-taking Thursday ahead of the
Easter holiday weekend, reversing earlier gains that were linked
to a massive plunge in US motor fuel reserves, traders said.


They also expressed relief that the two-week standoff between
Britain and key crude producer Iran was at an end. Fifteen
British naval personnel held by Iran for nearly a fortnight
returned to London on Thursday.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, shed 10 cents to close at 64.28 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
fell 16 cents to 68.24 dollars a barrel.


Both the New York and London markets were to be closed for the
Good Friday holiday.


"While there was some relief selling on the news of the Britons'
release, prices are still around three dollars higher than before
they were seized on March 23," Fimat analyst John Kilduff said.


"The steep drop in (US) gasoline inventories trumped even this
story. Clearly participants have refocused on the geopolitical
sphere," he said.


Prices had traded in positive territory for much of Thursday as
dealers digested news that US gasoline reserves plummeted by five
million barrels last week -- far more than market expectations
for a drop of just 300,000 barrels.


"The primary driver at the moment is the data that came out, it
wrong-footed the market," Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris
said.


"The fact it was so different from market expectations was hugely
relevant coming ahead of the US driving season," he said.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched before the driving
season, which starts next month, when many Americans hit the
roads for their summer holidays.


Crude futures had struck a seven-month peak of 69.58 dollars a
barrel in London on Monday as the crisis with Iran, the world's
fourth biggest oil producer, sparked fears that the Islamic
republic could disrupt exports.


But prices tumbled as low as 66.93 in London and 63.56 in New
York on Wednesday after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
pardoned the 15 sailors and marines as a "gift" to the British
people.


"Prices have eased due to the definite, peaceful resolution of
the row between Britain and Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"But the market is still supported by enough fundamental factors
to keep prices from sliding too far down, so the easing has been
rather modest."


The crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations with the
West, with the United States, Britain and other European powers
taking a hard line over Iran's disputed nuclear program.


Tehran has said its nuclear research is for peaceful purposes,
not a cover to build an atomic bomb as suspected by Western
powers.


High oil prices are the result of geopolitical tensions, rather
than a shortage of crude supplies, according to OPEC cartel
ministers gathered for an oil industry conference in Paris on
Thursday.


"The high prices of late are due to the geopolitical situation,"
Mohammed al- Hamili, president of the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries and oil minister for the United
Arab Emirates, said.


"It has nothing to do with the fundamentals," he said.


But Claude Mandil, head of the International Energy Agency, an
energy watchdog for richer countries, said that prices were too
high and that supply was too low.


"The oil supply is in our view a bit too low because we are in a
period when stocks should be built and we are not sure that
stocks are being built right now," he told AFP.

