

British Prime Minister Tony Blair denied Thursday that any deals
had been done to secure the return of 15 detainees from Iran, but
questions remained over exactly how they were freed.


Speculation centred on the release Tuesday of an Iranian diplomat
kidnapped two months ago in Baghdad, and the reported promise
this week of consular access to five Iranian officials seized by
US forces in Iraq in January.


But as the British sailors arrived back in Britain, some
commentators said the unexpected announcement of their release by
hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday was the
result of classic, quiet diplomacy.


British newspapers said for all the positioning, it was direct
talks Tuesday between Blair's chief foreign policy advisor Nigel
Sheinwald and Iran's top security official Ali Larijani that
broke the deadlock.


"The best lesson to take away from this affair was how rapidly it
was resolved once empowered officials on both sides talked
directly," the Financial Times said.


Blair, speaking at the exact moment the detainees touched down at
London's Heathrow airport, was adamant their release had been
secured "without any deal, without any negotiation, without any
side agreement of any nature whatever."


"There are no agreements about any Iranian elements that may be
held in Iraq because they are being held in Iraq as a result of
the wrongful interference in the business of Iraq," he said.


But The Sun newspaper said: "Who will be surprised if half a
dozen Iranian insurgents are quietly set free in a few months'
time?"


Britain initially favoured quiet diplomacy after the sailors were
seized in the northern Gulf on March 23 -- the day before a
United Nations Security Council vote which as predicted slapped
further sanctions on Iran over its controversial nuclear
programme.


But Britain's requests for diplomatic progess -- explanations,
consular access to the personnel, demands to know their
whereabouts -- fell on deaf ears.


London's patience snapped and on March 28, Britain changed tack,
issuing a military breakdown of its version of events as Blair
said it was time to get tough with Tehran and Britain froze
bilateral ties.


Iran swiftly responded with the first of a string of video
"confessions" of trespassing and letters from the only female
sailor. Talk of releasing her quietened and threats to try them
circled.


Britain took the matter to the UN Security Council, infuriating
Iran while failing to secure the harsh statement it wanted.
However, Britain's European Union partners rallied round.


Blair then persued a "two-track," good cop, bad cop approach of
diplomacy backed up with threats of bringing about Iran's
international isolation, and claimed Thursday this won the day.


Blair can justifiably claim a victory. His primary objective, the
safe return of the Royal Navy personnel, has been achieved. He
has not been forced into publicly apologising, and Britain's
version of events has not been convincingly proven false by Iran.


Throughout the crisis, Blair reiterated that Iran had nothing to
gain from keeping the sailors detained.


But Ahmedinejad scored a propaganda coup by his shock
announcement Wednesday that the sailors would be freed as a
"gift," though Blair insisted nobody would be "taken in" by such
"theatre."


Television footage showed the smiling sailors, clad in new suits,
thanking the president for their release and Iran's hospitality.


Perhaps with an eye on Iran's stand-off with the West over its
nuclear programme, Iran has shown it will flex its military
muscles against Western forces in the Gulf and the surge in oil
prices was a taster of what could happen if Iran is attacked.


Lord Norman Lamont, a former British finance minister, said the
US should learn from London's diplomatic drive.


"There were a lot of voices from Washington saying this won't
work, we shouldn't be talking to them, it is the threat of force,
it is strong language that is needed.


"It would be a good thing if America drew some lessons from this
and actually decided to engage more with Iran."

