

They are retirees, students, business owners and teachers, and
they have shown up with thousands of others in the capital in
recent days to say no to their president's decision to dissolve
parliament.


The reasons why are straightforward: They are poor and worry
about what now lies ahead.


Pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych has been locked in
political battle with President Viktor Yushchenko, his pro-
Western rival. Yushchenko has ordered the dissolution of
parliament and is standing firm against accusations he is
destabilizing the country.


In many cases, the current protesters supported Yushchenko and
his pro-Western approach during his so-called "Orange Revolution"
in 2004.


They gathered then in favour of him and to protest what many
viewed as rigged elections that showed his pro-Russian opponent
to be the winner. The election was eventually scrapped in the
face of those protests.


Some say they have now lost faith.


"Our president is a traitor," said Imma Domertchikova, 70. "I am
old, but I was here two years ago so that we could have this
president. I believed in it for the future of my grandchildren."


She is retired after 40 years of work in the paramedic field, but
her pension grants her only 400 hryvnias (58 euros, 78 dollars) a
month, she said. She said she paid 370 hryvnias a month in rent.


Anna Kolesnik, 54, said she spent 33 days at the same square in
Kiev in 2004 to protest in support of Yushchenko. She said men
attacked her after she hung orange banners after walking 300
kilometres (188 miles) in seven days to get there.


"And now what has this president done to us? Elections!" she said
through tears.


Some business owners said they feared the dissolution of
parliament would lead to instability that would reduce their
already low earnings.


Vassil Prokopenko, a 56-year-old secondary school teacher, came
from Tcherkassy, about 200 kilometres from the capital.


He and his wife take turns making the trip each day because they
also have to take care of their grandchildren. Their daughters
live in Kiev to earn a living.


"It's Yulia Tymoshenko who has impoverished us," he said,
referring to the president's former Orange Revolution ally.

