

A single genetic mutation explains why dogs vary in size from the
miniature Chihuahua to massive mastiffs, a range unmatched by any
other mammal, according to a study released Thursday.


Researchers have long puzzled over the tremendous variation in
size seen in canine breeds, particularly since the species
diversified over a relatively short period of time from an
evolutionary standpoint.


The new study suggests the riddle can be explained by a
combination of a genetic accident that created a small dog and
ten thousand years of selective dog- breeding that ensured the
rapid dissemination of this particular piece of doggy DNA.


The researchers believe the discovery of the DNA mutation could
also help explain why humans vary so much in size.


"The study is a major milestone in canine genetics. We have
precisely located the major gene that produces our miniature
breeds," said study co-author Paul Jones, a genetics researcher
at Mars Inc, the US confectionery and pet food giant which
supplied DNA samples used in the study.


All told, an international team of researchers examined the DNA
of more than 3,000 dogs from 143 breeds ranging from pocket-sized
pooches such as the Chihuahua, Maltese, Pomeranian, pug and
Pekinese to the huge Great Dane, St. Bernard and Irish Wolfhound.


They found that all dogs under 20 pounds (9 kilos), and virtually
all of the small canines studied, carried minute genetic
variations on the gene IGF-1 which codes for a protein hormone
called insulin-like growth factor 1.


The IGF-1 gene's hormone helps humans and other mammals grow from
birth to adolescence. In small dogs, one or more mutations in the
DNA next to the gene suppresses its activity, keeping small dogs
from growing larger, the researchers reported in the journal
Science.


The investigators found the genetic fingerprint in breeds that
are distantly related and found in distant regions, suggesting
that this hiccup in doggy DNA probably occurred about 12,000
years ago.


"It's as ancient as small dogs," said Gordon Lark, a biologist at
the University of Utah in Salt Lake City who worked on the
project.


"Dogs are derived from wolves. Since this is found in all small
dogs, it either got into dogs when they were first domesticated
or it was a small wolf that dogs descended from."


Over time, and under the management of humans, the species saw a
rapid diversification into a multitude of domestic dog breeds.
The researchers believe there was a bias toward breeding small
dogs because they were easier to maintain in the crowded confines
of developing cities and villages, and more easily transportable
during trade and migration.


The findings have implications far beyond the canine world, the
authors said.


"By learning how genes control body size in dogs, we are apt to
learn something about how skeletal body size is genetically
programmed in humans," said Elaine Ostrander, a senior author of
the study and chief of cancer genetics at the National Human
Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), which is part of the National
Institutes of Health.


"Nearly all of what we learn from studying body structure,
behavior and disease susceptibility in dogs helps us understand
some aspect of human health and biology."


Researchers at NHGRI led the study with help from colleagues at
several US and UK institutions including Cornell University in
New York, the University of California, Los Angeles, the
University of Southern California in Los Angeles, and the Waltham
Centre for Pet Nutrition in Leicestershire, England.

