

Saqibul Hasan may be a cub amongst Bangladesh's Tigers, but he
will not be intimidated by South Africa's awesome array of talent
when the two sides clash in the World Cup on Saturday.


The 20-year-old Hasan comes up against an attack which boasts
Shaun Pollock, Makhaya Ntini, Jacques Kallis and Andrew Hall.


But he insists that that quartet as well as South Africa's world
number one status does not impress him.


"Why worry, when I have faced Australian and New Zealand bowlers?
Why would I worry about the South Africans?" said Hasan.


Hasan said he has watched every South African bowler on
television and was looking forward to facing them for the first
time.


"I just want to play my natural game and will treat every ball on
merit. They (South Africans) are good bowlers who bowl line and
length and I have watched them since the 1999 World Cup," said
Hasan, one of the stars of his young team.


Hasan notched a match-winning 53 in his team's historic five-
wicket win over former champions India in the first round.


That win became the basis of Bangladesh's surprise qualification
for the Super Eights - something Hasan will remember for the rest
of his life.


"It's a good memory and it will live for ever. I was confident
that I would get runs and now I hope that I will get the big one
again. That innings against India made me realise that I can
score against big teams and good bowling."


Despite his success in the Caribbean, it was football, and not
cricket, which was his family sport when he was growing up as his
father and a cousin both played at domestic level.


But watching Bangladesh winning the ICC (International Cricket
Council) Trophy in 1999 sparked a huge cricket interest in the
boy who became the only cricketer to come from small town of
Magura in the Khulna district of his country.


Hasan rose from the Under-19 World Cup in Sri Lanka and since
making his debut against Zimbabwe - both last year - has hit
three fifties and one hundred in 25 one-day internationals with
an impressive average of 49.75.


Besides his half-century against India, Hasan played a
responsible innings of 26 not out in the crucial match against
Bermuda.


In the Super Eights, he has made 25 each against Australia and
New Zealand.


"I am enjoying the World Cup a lot but we all know that there is
still a lot of work to do and we hope to finish on a high note,"
vowed Hasan.

