

A Singapore man pleaded guilty Thursday to charges of conspiring
to provide arms to the Tamil Tigers in a crackdown on a weapons
smuggling network which has netted six Asians, US authorities
said.


Haniffa Bin Osman, 55, was the latest person to plead guilty in
the affair which saw undercover agents track the alleged arms
dealers from the eastern US port of Baltimore to the South
Pacific US territory of Guam.


"The disruption of the supply chain of this organization should
reassure the public that the US government is committed to
dismantling terrorist groups worldwide," said the FBI's special
agent William Chase.


Six people have been charged either with conspiracy to support a
terrorist organization or with attempting to illegally export
arms to the Tamil Tigers after the intricate investigation by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).


"Keeping sophisticated US weapons from falling into the hands of
terrorists has never been more important," said James Dinkins,
special agent for the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement in
Baltimore.


"This three-year undercover investigation ... highlights the
reach and impact of international arms trafficking."


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam are fighting for
independence in Sri Lanka's northern and eastern regions. More
than 60,000 people have been killed in the conflict since 1972.


But the rebels has been tagged as a terrorist organization by the
United States since 1997.


Five out of the six people arrested have pleaded guilty to the
charges against them. A sixth person, Sri Lankan Thirunavukarasu
Varatharasa, goes on trial next month on charges of conspiracy,
attempting to export arms, money laundering, and illegal
possession of weapons.


US attorney Rod Rosenstein said Osman had pleaded guilty Thursday
to conspiracy to provide material support to a designated foreign
terrorist organization and to money laundering.


Osman conspired with two Indonesians to buy 53 military weapons,
including sniper rifles, machine guns and grenade launchers as
well as ammunition and night-vision devices for the Tamil Tigers,
the Justice Department alleged.


They contacted an undercover business in Maryland to request a
price list and negotiate a deal. Those three have been charged
with conspiracy to provide support to a designated terrorist
organization, as well as money-laundering.


Three others, two Indonesians and a Sri Lankan, have been charged
in the affair with attempting to illegally export arms as well as
money-laundering.


They all face significant jail terms.


In a sting operation in July, Osman met with undercover FBI
agents in Baltimore to discuss transferring the arms to Sri
Lanka.


He told the agents that if the first order, for some 900,000
dollars of supplies, went smoothly a second one worth 15 million
dollars could follow, according to a Justice Department
statement.


In August some 250,000 dollars was wired from a Malaysian bank to
an undercover US bank account as a down payment for the weapons'
purchase.


Osman then travelled to Guam to inspect the weapons, and a second
down payment of 452,000 dollars was made.


Osman was joined by retired Indonesian general Erick Wotulo and
they both met with undercover agents to discuss shipping the
weapons to Sri Lanka. They were arrested in September in Guam.


"We will use all available legal tools to prevent terrorism,
including undercover operations targeting people who attempt to
obtain military weapons in violation of American law," added
Rosenstein.

