

Spanish side Osasuna all but booked their place in the UEFA Cup
semi-finals here on Thursday as they trounced 1988 winners Bayer
Leverkusen 3-0, their heaviest ever European home defeat, in
their first leg match.


Goals by Javier Cuellar - his within 60 seconds of the start -
David Lopez and Pierre Webo - with his first touch of the match
after coming on as a substitute - leave Bayer requiring a miracle
to get into the last four.


Cuellar gave the mid-table Spanish side, who put Scottish giants
Rangers out in the previous round, the perfect start and caught
Leverkusen asleep with a header from a Lopez corner.


The omnipresent Cuellar went desperately close to adding to his
tally in the seventh minute as he escaped Bosnian Sergej Barbarez
again and met Lopez' corner with a firm header but fortunately
for the hosts it went wide.


Osasuna were dominating play and could easily have been up as
much as 4-0 after 12 minutes but the Spaniards could not finish
it off.


Cuellar it was again who thwarted Leverkusen's soon to be
departed Ukrainian striker Andrej Voronin as he got back to force
the Liverpool-bound forward to shoot over the bar, after he had
received a superb through ball from Swiss playmaker Tranquillo
Barnetta.


Roberto Soldado should have made it 2-0 in the 17th minute but
his downward header went straight at Bayer's 'keeper Rene Adler,
though, he was fortunate that when he parried it it didn't fall
to veteran Serbian striker Savo Milosevic.


Down the other end the ball went and veteran German international
Bernd Schneider put in an excellent cross to the unmarked
Barbarez but he waited too long and his shot was cleared.


Bayer had the last worthwhile effort of a frenetic half when
Voronin was at the end of a beautifully orchestrated move,
inspired by the tireless Schneider, but his rasping effort went
past the left hand post.


The second-half started off at a more tranquil pace but came
alive shortly before the hour mark when Bayer centreback Juan was
left in acres of space but his well-timed shot just inside the
box was well saved by former Manchester United goalkeeper
Ricardo.


However, Osasuna deservedly took a 2-0 lead in the 71st minute as
the outstanding Lopez shot home after a great layback by
Milosevic as Bayer went to sleep at another corner.


Indeed Lopez had set up the corner as he slipped clear just
inside the Bayer half and ran on one-on-one with Adler but the
German 'keeper did well to turn it away for a corner.


However the tie was all but ripped from their grasp two minutes
after Lopez' goal as Milosevic set up Cameroon striker Webo and
with his first touch the substitute lobbed it over the stranded
Adler.

