

Britain's consul general in Jerusalem met Palestinian prime
minister Ismail Haniya on Thursday to discuss efforts to free an
abducted British journalist, defying an EU boycott on Hamas
ministers.


Richard Makepeace said he met Haniya and other senior Palestinian
officials to discuss British correspondent Alan Johnston of the
BBC, whose fate remains unknown more than three weeks after he
was grabbed by gunmen in the Gaza Strip.


"We hope to find a quick and peaceful solution to this
unfortunate problem," Makepeace told journalists after his
meeting.


Haniya's spokesman Ghazi Hamad said his government was working
intently in coordination with security services to secure
Johnston's release.


"Alan Johnston was a guest in the Palestinian territories and we
are committed to his well-being and to securing his release as
quickly as possible," Hamad said.


The British consulate in Jerusalem downplayed the importance of
the meeting, the first between Haniya and an EU diplomat since a
Palestinian unity government, combining the rival Hamas and Fatah
factions, took power on March 17.


The purpose of the meeting was "only to discuss the abduction of
the British reporter" and was "strictly for humanitarian
reasons," a consulate official said.


Britain's Foreign office also said in a statement that the
government remained committed to its policy of boycotting Hamas,
which it considers to be a terrorist organisation.


The meeting "does not change our normal policy on political
contacts with members of Hamas," the statement stressed.


Britain and the European Union have refused to meet Hamas members
of the new unity government over the Islamic group's refusal to
recognise Israel's right to exist or to renounce violence.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas told journalists rallying for
Johnston's release outside his Gaza City office that he had
discussed the case with British Foreign Secretary Margaret
Beckett on Thursday.


"We are working to obtain his release as soon as possible," Abbas
said.


Johnston, 44, is now in his fourth week of captivity after he was
abducted at gunpoint in Gaza City on March 12 -- the longest a
kidnapped westerner has been kept in the increasingly lawless
territory.


Pressure on Palestinian leaders to secure Johnston's release has
mounted in recent days as local journalists staged several
rallies in the West Bank and Gaza and declared a three-day
reporting boycott on all government activities.


Johnston was the British broadcaster's main correspondent in Gaza
for the past three years. His posting in Gaza is due to end this
month.


Foreign hostages are normally used as bargaining chips to gain
concessions from the Palestinian Authority, and so far all have
been released unharmed.


Previously, the longest period of captivity spent in the Gaza
Strip by foreign hostages was two weeks last August by two
journalists for the US-based Fox News television network.

