

The Champ Car auto racing season that kicks off in Las Vegas this
weekend sees a wealth of changes, but expect Sebastien Bourdais's
domination to stay the same.


The French driver will be bidding for an unprecedented fourth
straight Champ Car crown in 2007.


This season the series will feature a new racing chassis in use
by all teams, the Panoz DP01. The 16-race schedule also features
five new venues, including the Vegas street course as well as
circuits in China, the Netherlands, Belgium and Phoenix, Arizona.


"We definitely know it will be hard this year," Bourdais said.
"Everyone has the same equipment, and you really can't change
much on the car so for a team that likes to develop the car and
experiment, this is a disadvantage."


Past history, however, has proven Bourdais and his Newman/Haas
team are more than capable of adapting.


In all five of the new venues Champ Car has visited in the past
four years, Bourdais has emerged with a victory.


Canadian Paul Tracy, the last driver to claim a season title over
Bourdais - in 2003 - returns with Forsythe racing, which will
also run Mexican veteran Mario Dominguez in 2007.


England's Justin Wilson, runner-up to Bourdais last year, also
returns, but there have been big changes to his former RuSport
team, now operating in partnership with Rocketsports in the new
RSports team, which will also include Canadian Alex Tagliani.


Team Australia finished strong in 2006 and returns with Will
Power and new teammate Simon Pagenaud, who won the junior
Atlantic circuit title last year.


Minardi Team USA, now owned by ex-Formula One regular Paul
Stoddart, goes with rookie Robert Doornbos of the Netherlands and
Briton Dan Clarke.


France's Nelson Philippe, who scored his initial win for the team
last year and ran strong all season has departed.


Pacific Coast Motorsports is the new team in the paddock, with
two rookie drivers in Scotland's Ryan Dalziel and American Alex
Figge.


One of Bourdais's challengers could be his own young teammate,
Graham Rahal, the 18-year-old son of three-time CART champion
Bobby Rahal.


He won five Atlantic races last year, but knows the jump to Champ
Car will be a challenge.


"I know I've got a lot to learn," he said. "I'd love to win a
race - I mean, that's my goal ... but I've never driven a Champ
Car for two hours, so I really don't know what to expect."

