

The OPEC oil group faced calls for increased output to help
dampen rising crude prices on Thursday, but leading members
stressed that geopolitical rather than supply concerns were
driving the market.


Crude prices leapt to nearly 70 dollars per barrel earlier this
week, mainly as a result of tension over the capture of British
sailors by Iran.


They were trading at about 68 dollars per barrel in London and 64
dollars in New York on Thursday, with traders weighing the end of
the British-Iranian standoff against news of a sharp drop in
stocks of gasoline in the United States.


"The high prices of late are due to the geopolitical situation.
It has nothing to do with the fundamentals," OPEC President
Mohammed al-Hamili, who is also oil minister for the United Arab
Emirates, argued on the sidelines of an oil industry conference
here.


But Claude Mandil, the head of the International Energy Agency,
an energy watchdog for rich countries, said that prices were too
high and that world supply was "a bit too low."


"The oil supply is in our view a bit too low because we are in a
period when stocks should be built and we are not sure that
stocks are being built right now," he told AFP in an interview.


The 12-member Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
which supplies more than a third of world oil, has cut its
production twice in the last six months.


Qatari Energy Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah echoed
Hamili's comments by stressing that supply and demand were in
balance and that political and security tensions were to blame
for high prices.


"This price is not related to demand and supply at all. It is
only related to geopolitics," he said.


Attiyah said he did not expect OPEC to increase its production
before the cartel's next scheduled meeting in September.


"I don't think so. There is no need," he said.


The IEA was set up during the 1973-1974 oil crisis to represent
rich countries' energy concerns, partly as a counterweight to the
OPEC group.


Mandil's comments did not refer to the cartel in name, but he
repeated that the IEA believed that "it would be better to have a
little more oil" from producers in general.


Mandil also said on Thursday that he was "not so concerned" about
suggestions that leading gas producers planned to club together
to form an OPEC-style cartel for gas.


The prospect has raised fears in consuming countries and the
issue is expected to figure at a meeting of possible cartel
members at the Gas Exporting Countries Forum in Qatar on Monday.


"I don't see how it could be possible to transpose to the gas
market the mechanism that OPEC has achieved in the oil market, so
I am not very concerned," Mandil told AFP.


Algeria, Iran, Russia, Qatar and Venezeula are to meet in the
Qatari capital on Monday.


Russian newspaper Kommersant, citing Arab diplomatic sources,
reported recently that the countries had been working towards
announcing the creation of a gas cartel.


Qatari Energy Minister Attiyah, while declined to comment on the
report, said: "We have to wait to see what the others are
thinking."


Mandil and the OPEC ministers were attending an international oil
conference in Paris.

