

Fifteen British sailors freed by Iran called their ordeal "very
difficult" after they flew home Thursday to end a tense stand-off
that Britain insisted had been resolved without any trade-off.


But there were questions amid the celebrations, after Tehran said
it had received an apology from Britain, a key demand it made for
releasing the seven marines and eight sailors.


The Britons were flown in military helicopters to a base in
Devon, southwest England, after arriving on a British Airways
flight from Tehran to London's Heathrow airport.


"The past two weeks have been very difficult but by staying
together as a team we kept our spirits up," the group said in a
joint statement read at the Chivenor Royal Marines base.


The 14 men and one woman looked relaxed, but tears flowed as
relieved relatives hugged them following their two weeks in
Iranian captivity. The group was seized by Iranian forces in the
northern Gulf on March 23.


Defence Secretary Des Browne said they "acted with immense
courage and dignity" after Tehran accused them of illegally
entering Iranian territorial waters, a charge Britain denies.


In a British television interview given before their capture but
only released Thursday, one of the captured sailors acknowledged
gathering intelligence on Iranian activities in the Gulf area.


Filmed while boarding an Iraqi fishing vessel, Royal Marine
Captain Chris Air, 25 said they often pumped the fishermen for
information, "whether it's about any piracy or any sort of
Iranian activity in the area, because obviously we're right near
the buffer zone with Iran."


Both sides in the tense diplomatic stand-off claimed a moral
victory in the dispute, a day after Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad said he was freeing them as a "gift" to the British
people.


Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign minister and now advisor to
supreme leader Ali Khamenei, said Britain had sent a letter of
apology to Iran the day before Ahmadinejad's announcement.


But as the 15 arrived home, Prime Minister Tony Blair stressed
their release was obtained "without any deal, without any
negotiation, without any side agreement of any nature whatever".


The group's return coincided with the deaths of four British
soldiers, two of them women, in Iraq, which Blair said showed the
"ugly reality" of terrorism in the region.


Ahmadinejad had told reporters Wednesday that Britain had sent a
letter promising its military would not enter Iranian waters.


He chided Britain for its "media hype" during the crisis and
decorated a Revolutionary Guards commander who seized the
Britons.


Britain was infuriated at the way the soldiers were paraded on
Iranian television and shown making apologies that British
ministers said appeared coerced.


The 15 were shown again before their departure, celebrating and
again apologising.


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," Lieutenant Felix Carman
told Iranian state television.


Hours before their return friends and relatives of the captured
navy personnel popped champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement.


Theresa Fowler, the aunt of 22-year-old Royal Marine Andrew
Sperry, told BBC television: "We're just longing to see him and
put our arms around him and give him a kiss."


The marine's grandmother Margaret Sperry added: "I felt I
couldn't stand no more. That is all I want to do, just hold him
to me. This is just magic."


The stand-off further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's nuclear programme and sent world oil
prices to a seven-month high.


But Iran's nuclear chief Ali Larijani had told the European Union
it would not be suspending its nuclear programme of uranium
enrichment, Iranian state television reported.


He made the remarks in a telephone conversation Wednesday with
the EU's top diplomat, Javier Solana.


Washington was also in an uncompromising mood.


US Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Thursday the United States
was not inclined to release five Iranians captured in Iraq and
accused of supporting Iraqi insurgents.


Iraqi and US officials were discussing the possibility of
allowing "some kind of Iranian access to them" but that such
access was not obligatory, he added.


France meanwhile, which on Wednesday welcomed the release of the
British service personnel, is still lobbying Tehran to have
French researcher Stephane Dudoignon freed.


He was detained on January 30 while researching the minority
Sunni community and is currently under house arrest.

