

US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte is to discuss the
humanitarian crisis in Darfur on a visit to Sudan, Chad, Libya
and Mauritania next week, US officials said Thursday.


He will push Sudan to accept the deployment of a robust UN-
African Union peacekeeping force to stem violence that has
steadily escalated since the Darfur conflict erupted in 2003, the
State Department said.


Negroponte is also to rally support from Sudan's neighboring
states Chad and Libya to help end the conflict, during his
African trip from April 11 to 19.


"The focus of the trip will be the crisis in Darfur and efforts
to achieve peace in Sudan through implementation of the Darfur
peace agreement and the comprehensive peace agreement," State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"Certainly he's going to encourage the Sudanese government to
give the green light to the AU-UN hybrid package, which is
fundamental to providing security and greater stability in
Darfur," he said.


The western Sudanese region is the scene of ongoing crisis
despite these agreements, signed by the Khartoum government with
two separate rebel groups.


They aimed to end a conflict that broke out when rebels from
minority tribes took up arms to demand an equal share of national
resources. The uprising prompted a brutal crackdown by Khartoum
and its Arab proxy militia, the Janjaweed, against black ethnic
groups.


Some 200,000 people have been killed and more than two million
driven from their homes, according to the United Nations, which
has reported widespread human rights abuses in Darfur.


"The tragic situation of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur is
something that peoccupies all Americans," Negroponte said
Thursday at a Washington forum, confirming his mission.


"It is an issue to which the administration is devoting
considerable time and resources."


He said the Darfur turmoil was "a very difficult situation indeed
and a lot of work needs to be done, but the administration is
very committed to doing what it can to try to bring about a
better situation in that country."


It will be Negroponte's first trip to Africa since he was
confirmed by the Senate in February as number two in the State
Department after Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.


The crisis in Darfur has spilled over its western border. Reports
of inter- ethnic violence in neighboring Chad and the Central
African Republic have prompted US officials to warn of a new
humanitarian crisis in these areas.


Sudan also borders Libya to the northwest.


Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi in February hosted a summit on the
Darfur crisis that brought together Sudanese President Omar al-
Beshir with Eritrean President Issais Afeworki and Chadian
President Idriss Deby, along with UN and AU envoys.


Negroponte will be the highest ranking government official to
visit Libya since Washington renewed diplomatic relations with
Tripoli in May last year following a 25-year rupture.


In Mauritania, Negroponte will attend the inauguration of Sidi
Ould Cheikh Abdallahi as the country's first democratically
elected president.

