

East Timor's security situation was volatile Thursday as
presidential election campaigning drew to a close a day after at
least 32 people were injured in unrest, the United Nations said.


"The current situation on security is it's volatile but remains
under control," Allison Cooper, a spokesperson for the UN mission
in East Timor, told AFP.


She said both the UN and East Timorese police have deployed "a
lot of officers on the street" to provide security leading up to
Monday's vote.


"We are confident the election will be peaceful," Cooper said.


UN police said in a separate statement that five people were
injured by steel darts in the hilltop town of Gleno, south of the
capital Dili, on Wednesday evening.


They were injured in clashes between supporters of rival
presidential candidates, with the casualties taken to hospital in
Dili.


Rocks were thrown during the confrontation but UN police and
soldiers from the international peacekeeping force in East Timor
restored order, the statement said.


Another 15 people were "allegedly injured" Wednesday night in
Metinaro when one group of supporters attacked a convoy of people
backing another candidate, the police said.


Officers arrived to escort the convoy but one truck was damaged
by rocks thrown. Two UN vehicles were damaged in a separate
incident, the statement said.


Confrontations were reported at seven separate locations in Dili
on Wednesday as four presidential candidates campaigned, with
eight people injured, the statement said.


UN police were also forced to fire warning shots Wednesday after
two officers were injured in separate unrest near the Australian
Embassy in Dili.


Eight candidates are running in the first presidential election
since the former Portuguese colony became independent in 2002,
after 24 years of Indonesian occupation and a period of UN
stewardship.


Atul Khare, head of the UN mission in East Timor, told reporters
that 90 percent of campaign events had been peaceful.


Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, a contender to win the election,
appealed for calm. Campaigning in the devoutly Roman Catholic
nation formally ends on Good Friday.


Last year at least 37 people were killed and 150,000 displaced by
violence that led to the dispatch of Australian-led international
peacekeepers to stabilise the fledgling state.

