

The dollar slid to a two-year low against the euro Thursday as
investors locked in positions ahead of a long weekend and the
release of a key US labor market report.


The euro stood at 1.3427 dollars at 2100 GMT after rising earlier
in the day to 1.3441 dollars, its highest level since March 14,
2005. Late on Wednesday in New York it had been at 1.3367
dollars.


The dollar fetched 118.71 yen, up a notch compared with 118.70
late on Wednesday.


Analysts said market participants were squaring up positions
ahead of the weekend with markets closed for Good Friday, even
though the US government releases its nonfarm payrolls report,
seen as a critical economic indicator.


"The risk is a number that shocks and takes currencies out of
their current range," said Sue Voigtsberger at PNC Bank.


"It is always wise in a holiday market to place stop-loss orders
to mitigate any damage from a shocking news event or
announcement."


The consensus forecast is for the creation of 135,000 new US jobs
in March, but John Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets said the
risk is downward.


"Numerous related indicators that are being used for speculation
have done more to lower expectations from the official consensus
rather than support it," he said.


The US currency had been hit in earlier Asian trade by soft
economic data, while the euro has been buoyed in recent weeks by
positive economic news and favorable interest rate differentials,
analysts said.


"It's a move that's been building up for some time," said Ian
Stannard, currency strategist at BNP Paribas.


He said that there had been "no new news" which triggered the
move higher, other than the contrasting economic outlooks in the
eurozone and the United States.


Stannard added that "the data from Europe was continuing to come
on the strong side" in contrast with the "mixed" data flow from
the United States.


CMC Markets chief analyst Ashraf Laidi said a rise in the US
unemployment rate Friday would indicate future easing of interest
rates by the Federal Reserve.


"In the event that the jobless rate rises to 4.6 percent from 4.5
percent along with a payrolls (number) remaining lower than
110,000 to 120,000, markets will deem the report as an additional
step to a June rate cut," he said.


The Institute of Supply Management's non-manufacturing index fell
in March, while the market had expected it to rise. The release
raised concerns that the US service sector could face trouble
along with manufacturing.


Elsewhere, sterling fell against rival currencies after the Bank
of England held its key interest rate at 5.25 percent for the
third month in a row on Thursday.


The pound was also pushed lower by data showing British
manufacturing output suffered its biggest fall in March since
October 2005.


Official figures showed manufacturing output, which accounts for
about 15 percent of the British economy, fell by 0.6 percent in
February from the previous month, confounding analysts'
expectations for a 0.3 percent rise.


In late New York trade, the pound was being traded at 1.9707
dollars after 1.9759 Wednesday.


The dollar stood at 1.2150 Swiss francs from 1.2197.

