

Israel has stalled a US plan to sell advanced weaponry, including
satellite- guided arms, to Saudi Arabia, the New York Times
reported Thursday.


The Times said on its website that Israeli officials, including
former defense minister Shaul Mofaz, have strongly lobbied
Washington to block parts of a planned arms package for the
Saudis and unspecified others in the Middle East that could be
worth five billion to 10 billion dollars.


Israel is particularly concerned that the United States will
supply the Saudis with precision-guided, air-based weapons that
could erode Israel's military superiority in the region, the
newspaper said, citing unnamed US government sources.


"The Israeli complaints have introduced a new uncertainty into
the administration's plan to beef up Persian Gulf militaries as a
bulwark against Iran and as a demonstration that, no matter what
happens in Iraq, Washington remains committed to the Sunni Arab
governments around the region," the Times said.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack Thursday refused to
confirm the report, but did say that arms sales to several
countries in the Gulf were the subject of discussion between
those countries and the US Congress.


"We are working with Saudi Arabia, states in the Gulf, on their
particular defensive needs given the strategic challenges in the
Gulf," he said.


"I would describe it as an ongoing discussion. There are no final
decisions yet."


Washington remained committed however to preserving the
"qualitative edge" it has accorded Israel in arms issues, he
said.


"As for the issue of the so-called qualitative military edge,
this is something that we are dedicated to helping Israel
preserve for a number of different reasons," he said.


Among those reasons was the Jewish state's "defensive needs, for
the deterrent nature of that edge, as well as allowing Israel to
take calculated risks in the interest of peace," McCormack said.


"We are committed to Israel's security," he said, adding: "We're
also committed to our historical relationships -- good, strong
relationships -- with other states in the region, including Saudi
Arabia."


According to the New York Times, Israel is concerned closer
relations envisioned between Washington and Israel on one side
and Riyadh on the other might never happen.


It is also worried that the Saudi regime could give way to an
Islamic fundamentalist government.


"The Israelis believe the government of Saudi Arabia is under a
great deal of pressure," former Pentagon official David Schenker
told the paper.


Al-Qaeda leader "Osama bin Laden would like to change the Saudi
government to what he considers a real Islamist government. So
Israel doesn't want them to have this heightened military
capability," said Schenker.


The Times said the package of arms for Saudi Arabia and other
Gulf countries provisionally includes tanks, warships and
advanced air defense systems.


If the whole deal is approved, the value could run from five
billion to 10 billion dollars, according to an unnamed US defense
industry executive.

