

Britain's consul general in Jerusalem met with Palestinian prime
minister Ismail Haniya on Thursday to discuss efforts to free an
abducted British journalist, defying an EU boycott on Hamas
ministers.


Richard Makepeace said he met with Haniya and other senior
Palestinian officials to discuss British correspondent Alan
Johnston, whose fate remains unknown more than three weeks after
he was grabbed by gunmen in the Gaza Strip.


"We hope to find a quick and peaceful solution to this
unfortunate problem," Makepeace told journalists after the
meeting.


Haniya spokesman Ghazi Hamad said his government was working
intently in coordination with security services to secure
Johnston's release.


"Alan Johnston was a guest in the Palestinian territories and we
are committed to his wellbeing and to securing his release as
quickly as possible," Hamad said.


The British consulate in Jerusalem downplayed the importance of
the meeting, the first between Haniya and an EU diplomat since a
Palestinian unity government, combining the rival Hamas and Fatah
factions, took power on March 17.


The purpose of the meeting was "only to discuss the abduction of
the British reporter" and "strictly for humanitarian reasons," a
consulate official said.


Britain's Foreign Office also said the government remained
committed to its policy of boycotting Hamas, which it considers a
terrorist outfit.


The meeting "does not change our normal policy on political
contacts with members of Hamas," a statement said.


Britain and the European Union have refused to meet Hamas members
of the new government over the Islamic group's refusal to
recognise Israel or renounce violence.


Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas told journalists rallying for
Johnston's release outside his Gaza City office that he had
discussed the case with British Foreign Minister Margaret Beckett
on Thursday.


"We are working to obtain his release as soon as possible," Abbas
said.


Johnston, 44, is now in his fourth week of captivity after he was
abducted at gunpoint in Gaza City on March 12 -- the longest a
kidnapped foreigner has been kept in the increasingly lawless
territory.

