

The CEO of South African telecommunications giant Telkom quit
Thursday after only 18 months in the job, the company said
without giving a reason for his departure.


Papi Molotsane, who has been criticised by analysts for his
leadership style and lack of vision, will be replaced by the
company's chief operating officer.


Ruben September will take over as acting CEO and Telkom will
immediately start searching for a permanent replacement, the
partially state-owned telecommunications group said in a brief
stock exchange statement.


Last week Molotsane came under fire from the South African
government for signing a supplier deal which was seen as outside
the government's policy framework.


The East African Submarine Cable System (Eassy) contract to build
a 300 million US dollar submarine cable has been marked by
conflicting points of view.


The government wants open and non-discriminatory access and
companies want the project to be run along commercial lines.


According to financial website ITweb, Molotsani -- who
spearheaded the signing of the deal with Eassy -- was among the
latter, placing him at odds with government policy.


He was also seen to be siding with Kenya, which withdrew from the
project, disagreeing with the framework of non-discriminatory
access.


Department of Communications director-general Lyndall Shope-
Mafole said Monday she wanted Molotsane to toe the line, and said
the government would use its board influence to stop Telkom from
going ahead with the contract.


"I don't want Papi [Molotsane] fired. We will engage with Telkom
to resolve the situation," ITweb reported her as saying.


Governments which have signed the protocol were determined that
the project should not be dominated by one consortium.


Telkom is regularly attacked by analysts and subscribers for its
high charges and near monopoly status.


A study by the Business Leadership group on 15 countries said
ADSL costs in South Africa were 139 percent higher than the
average rate in the nations surveyed. It said local calls at peak
hours were 199 percent more expensive.


Clients also object to what they see as poor services.

