

India lifted a freeze on land clearances for scores of economic
zones imposed after deadly protests but promised there would be
no forcible acquisition of land for the enclaves.


India also imposed a limit on the size of special economic zones
(SEZs).


The government suspended clearances for SEZs last month following
clashes between protesting farmers and the police who were sent
to clear land for a petrochemical hub in eastern West Bengal
state.


Fourteen people were killed when police opened fire in Nandigram,
a village 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of West Bengal state
capital Kolkata.


"We are not stopping any (SEZ) process," Commerce Minister Kamal
Nath said.


The government said clearance would be now given for 83 SEZs and
India's Board of Approvals would now consider 162 SEZs which
already have initial approval, along with 140 new applications.


Approval would be given to applications where there was no land
dispute, the government said. 63 SEZs have already received final
clearance.


The SEZ scheme to give foreign firms Chinese-style tax-free
enclaves to push industrialisation has met with massive protests
from landowners.


But following the protests at Nandigram and other proposed SEZ
sites, Nath told reporters "no state can compulsorily acquire
land from farmers."


Instead of the government acquiring land, promoters would have to
approach landowners and acquire property at commercial rates.


Nath also announced a cap of 5,000 hectares (12,350 acres) for
SEZs.


The farmers' protests have sparked a debate over whether farmland
should be used for industry in India, where some two-thirds of
the billion-plus population live off agriculture.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said last month that his government
would not reverse plans to create SEZs although the federal
government has promised to come up with a compensation package
for displaced villagers.


In eastern Orissa state which borders West Bengal, 13 protesters
died last January when authorities forcibly tried to clear land
of tribal people.


India's business lobby group, the Confederation of Indian
Industry, welcomed the announcement and said it hoped it would
"end the ambiguity about the future of SEZs."

