

The Nigerian government on Thursday rejected a report by a human
rights body that its alleged partisan meddling in the electoral
process could undermine elections due to be held later this
month.


"The government rejects the report in its entirety and considers
it very unfortunate and regrettable," Information Minister Frank
Nweke said in a reaction to Human Rights Watch (HRW) accusations
published Wednesday.


The report "is unfounded, malicious and stereotypical - another
in the series of denigrating pictures which ethnocentric Western
institutions unjustifiably construct of our country", the
minister said.


The New York-based rights group said that nearly all the
candidates barred from the elections "are either members of the
opposition or ruling party supporters who are seen as being close
to vice president Atiku Abubakar".


Abubakar, a presidential candidate who has fallen out with
President Olusegun Obasanjo and who has been indicted over
alleged corruption, is barred by the Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) from the April 21 poll.


The information minister said in a statement that no amount of
blackmail would deter the government "from its sworn duty of
ensuring that Nigeria's ship of state never falls into the hands
of corrupt and rapacious elements again."


HRW also accused the Nigerian government of showing
"unwillingness" to tackle political violence ahead of the April
14 and 21 polls.


"It seems plain that on April 14 and 21, Nigerian voters will
again face the threat of violence, intimidation and fraud," the
group said.


The HRW report said that the Nigerian government had so far
failed to put in place some of the basic foundations for free and
fair election.


"The use of violence for political ends has become routine in
Nigeria," HRW said, accusing the country's police of failing "to
investigate or prosecute politicians responsible for mobilising
violence ahead of the elections".


State governorship and assembly polls are scheduled for April 14
while presidential and National Assembly elections are to be held
a week later in what is expected to be the nation's first
civilian-to-civilian transition.

