

India lifted a freeze on scores of economic zones on Thursday
imposed following deadly protests, but promised there would be no
forcible acquisition of land for the enclaves.


The government suspended land clearances for special economic
zones (SEZs) last month following clashes between protesting
farmers and the police who were sent to clear land for a
petrochemical hub in the Marxist ruled eastern West Bengal state.


Fourteen people were killed when police opened fire in Nandigram,
a village 120 kilometres (75 miles) south of West Bengal state
capital Kolkata.


"We are not stopping any (SEZ) process," Commerce Minister Kamal
Nath said.


But following the protests at Nandigram and other proposed SEZ
sites, Nath told reporters "no state can compulsorily acquire
land from farmers" and said the onus had now shifted onto the
developers.


Instead of the government acquiring land, promoters would have to
approach landowners and acquire property at commercial rates.


The government said permission would be now be given for 83 SEZs
and India's Board of Approvals will consider 162 SEZs which
already have initial approval, along with 140 new applications.


Approval would be given to applications where there was no land
dispute, the government said. 63 SEZs have already received final
clearance.


The SEZ scheme to give foreign firms Chinese-style tax-free
enclaves to push industrialisation has met with massive protests
from landowners.


Nath also announced a cap of 5,000 hectares (12,350 acres) for
SEZs.


The farmers' protests have sparked a debate over whether farmland
should be used for industry in India, where some two-thirds of
the billion-plus population live off agriculture.


Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said last month that his government
would not reverse plans to create SEZs although the federal
government has promised to come up with a compensation package
for displaced villagers.


In eastern Orissa state which borders West Bengal, 13 protesters
died last January when authorities forcibly tried to clear land
of tribal people.


Industry lobbies hailed the government's move, but the communists
criticised it.


The Confederation of Indian Industry said it hoped it would "end
the ambiguity about the future of SEZs."


The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry said
the decision "will clear uncertainties and give a clear signal
that SEZs are here to stay."


The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry president
Venugopal N Dhoot said clearing the SEZ proposals "will
accelerate economic activities for increased production and
exports."


But India's Communist Party of India -- lending crucial support
to the Congress- led government in New Delhi and partners of the
Marxist administration in West Bengal -- slammed the decision.


"How can the empowered group of ministers take a decision in such
an ad hoc manner" when a parliamentary committee is still
debating the SEZ policy, a report quoted Communist Party of
India's national secretary D Raja as saying.


"We do not think that this sort of ad hoc decision ... will help
in any way," Raja said.

