

James Blake begins for the US against Spain, with the American
facing off against Spanish number one Tommy Robredo when the pair
start play on Friday in the Davis Cup quarter-final.


Blake, who has done poorly in his last two events at home at
Indian Wells and Miami, will try to improve at the expense of his
sixth-ranked opponent, against whom he stands 3-2.


The American exited in the third round at Indian Wells last month
against Julien Benneteau of France, then was beaten in his
opening match at Miami by Florent Serra.


In addition, Blake's last Davis Cup outing was a loss to Tomas
Berdych in the Czech Republic two months ago.


"I know there's gonna be ups and downs," said Blake, who stands
9-7 in career Davis Cup singles, though he has lost three of his
last five matches in the competition.


"I'm lucky enough to have had some ups and downs already to know
that two weeks isn't gonna make or break my career," he said of
his March misery.


"It was very disappointing at the time. I'm pretty upset and not
happy about what happened or how I played or chances gone by.


"But (after Miami) I took a day or two off, I was right back to
training and then feeling great.  That's what I need to do, learn
from those and learn from the disappointment."


Andy Roddick has pulled up fit after the hamstring injury which
forced him to quit a Miami quarter-final against Andy Murray and
will play the second singles tie on opening day against Fernando
Verdasco.


Roddick has said that the Davis Cup campaign is a huge goal for
him and is ready to play through pain.


"There's daily ice and electrical steam and laser treatments and
all sorts of stuff," Roddick said of his race to fitness form his
left hamstring problem.


"Three days after Miami, I literally spent about three or four
hours a day on a table just with my trainer just working on it.
That was our goal. I think that expedited the recovery process."


In Saturday doubles, American twins Bob and Mike Bryan will take
on Verdasco, doing treble duty this weekend under the plans of
coach Emilio Sanchez and Feliciano Lopez.


Sunday's reverse singles feature Roddick against Robredo as the
number one players meet followed by Blake against Verdsaco.


The US, champions 31 times, lost the 2004 final in Seville in
their last meeting with Spain, but stand 4-3 in the overall
series.

