

Manchester United chiefs accused Italian police of a "severe
over-reaction" after they baton-charged supporters of the
Premiership club during their Champions League defeat at Roma.


United and Roma fans were involved in fighting outside the
Olympic Stadium before Wednesday's game and riot police used
batons and tear gas to subdue the visiting supporters when fresh
disturbances erupted during the quarter-final first leg, which
ended in a 2-1 victory for the Italian side.


Thirteen United fans were hospitalised, one with a stab wound to
the neck, as a result of the violence before and during the match
and UEFA, European football's governing body, have announced they
will investigate.


United are furious with the police's behaviour at the stadium and
they insist fans were attacked regardless of whether or not they
had been involved in fighting.


The English club admit they are powerless to take action against
the police, but they want supporters to submit statements to help
a governement investigation into the trouble.


A statement on United's website said: "The distressing scenes
witnessed in the Stadio Olimpico on Wednesday night shocked
everyone at Old Trafford.


"In what the Club views as a severe over-reaction, local police
handed out indiscriminate beatings to United supporters.


"In these circumstances, neither Manchester United nor AS Roma is
able to call the police to account.


"As a result, the Club warmly welcomes the Government examination
of the incident and will collect witness statements from fans to
submit to the Home Office."


Under Italian law, the local police are responsible for safety
within their major stadiums and the British Home Office said they
will gather information from all relevant sources before deciding
whether to approach UEFA about the incident.


Home Officer Minister Vernon Coaker told BBC Radio Five Live:
"The scenes that we saw on our television screens were extremely
concerning.


"And I would be interested to see the report that comes - not
only from Italian police but also from our own police officers
who were out there, from the Embassy to listen to the fans
themselves and indeed from the club to see what their view of
things is and we need some explanation of what actually took
place and the police response to it."


Rome's head of police, Achille Serra, insisted the police action
was a "justified response", and said there would be no inquiry
unless he were shown evidence of any alleged police brutality.


United supporter Carly Lyes, 23, claimed that police were heavy-
handed with her as they snatched a camera to stop her filming an
eye-witness account of the trouble.


"The police clearly did not want me to film what they were
doing," said Lyes. "It was awful. Even when I was getting
treatment for my injuries supporters were still getting hit on
the concourse below.


"One fan had blood pouring from his head and another was
unconscious but the police kept on wading in.


"I was screaming and shouting for them to stop, but they just
ignored me. There weren't saying anything, just lashing out in
all directions.


"You can tell how rough the police were by the injury I suffered
trying to keep hold of my camera. Their tactics were just
disgusting."

