

High-priced Japanese import Daisuke Matsuzaka lived up to his
billing in his Major League Baseball debut.


Matsuzaka was brilliant in his highly anticipated major league
debut, working seven strong innings to lead the Boston Red Sox to
a 4-1 victory over the Kansas City Royals.


The Red Sox made headlines this offseason when they posted a
record-setting 51 million-dollar bid for exclusive negotiating
rights with Matsuzaka, who agreed to terms on a six-year deal
reportedly worth 52 million dollars in December.


The 26-year-old gave the Red Sox a hefty early return on their
investment, yielding only one run and six hits with one walk and
10 strikeouts. He threw 74 of 108 pitches for strikes.


The Japanese righthander has been surrounded by a tremendous
amount of fanfare since arriving in the United States this past
winter, drawing unprecedented media attention for a foreign
pitcher while immediately elevating the Red Sox to a preseason
favorite to make the playoffs.


After allowing a leadoff single to David DeJesus in the first
inning, Matsuzaka retired 11 of the next 12 batters he faced and
struck out five over that span.


Matsuzaka did not run into trouble until the sixth.


With Kansas City trailing 2-0, DeJesus led off with a homer to
right field and Esteban German followed with an infield single.


But the rally bid stalled when Mark Teahen struck out and German
was caught stealing on the same play. Emil Brown ripped a two-out
double, but Matsuzaka escaped further damage by striking out
rookie Alex Gordon to end the threat.


Matsuzaka overshadowed a solid season debut for Royals starter
Zack Greinke, who allowed two runs - one earned - and eight hits
in seven innings.


The righthander walked one and struck out seven, throwing
64-of-101 pitches for strikes.


Lefthander J.C. Romero logged a scoreless eighth while Jonathan
Papelbon worked the ninth to record his first save of the season
for the Red Sox, who won the rubber game of this three-game
series.

