

A British court has sentenced an accomplice of a fugitive
Nigerian former state governor to three years in prison for money
laundering, the British High Commission said Thursday.


Joyce Bamidele Oyebanjo, 40, was sentenced at Southwark Crown
Court Wednesday, having been found guilty of laundering 1.4
million pounds (2.76 million dollars/2.05 million euros) of money
stolen from Nigerian State funds, the Commission said.


Oyebanjo, a Nigerian national living in London, was arrested on
July 21, 2004 and charged with money laundering on April 15, 2005
and her assets were seized, the Commission said in a statement.


The investigation began in January 2004 following the seizure of
over 11,000 pounds in cash from an address in London.


The cash was found to have belonged to Joshua Dariye, the former
governor of Nigeria's central Plateau State, who disappeared
after his impeachment last year by the state parliament.


It is a criminal offence in Nigeria for a serving state governor
to operate a foreign bank account. In addition to this, all
foreign assets should be declared to the Nigerian government.


An investigation into Dariye by Nigeria's anti-graft agency, the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, showed that vast sums
of Plateau State government money had been diverted into Dariye's
personal accounts.


The funds were used to purchase expensive property in London
using false names, the statement said.


Oyebanjo, who is the guardian of Dariye's children who are at a
private boarding school in Britain, used her numerous British
bank accounts to launder the money he was siphoning off, it said.


Dariye's legitimate earnings amounted to less than 40,000 pounds
a year and yet he accumulated assets worth millions of pounds,
much of which had been destined for development projects in
Plateau State, the Commission statement said.


Oyebanjo was investigated by the Metropolitan Police Proceeds of
Corruption Unit, which was specifically set up to investigate
money laundering in London by corrupt overseas officials,


Dariye was arrested in September 2004 at a London hotel in
connection with the money laundering offences. 93,000 pounds in
cash was recovered from his hotel rooms.


The money was forfeited under the British law and is awaiting
repatriation to Nigeria.


Dariye, who was bailed pending further enquiries, later jumped
bail, fled to Nigeria and is currently wanted in Britain.

