

Warm sunshine and clear blue skies greeted 15 British naval
personnel Thursday as they touched down in London, back in
uniform on home soil two weeks to the day after being seized in
the Gulf.


At 12:02 pm (1102 GMT), nearly 24 hours after hearing of their
release, the 14 men and one woman stepped off a scheduled British
Airways flight to Heathrow Airport.


On board the flight from Tehran the seven marines and eight
sailors, including mother-of-one Faye Turney who initially became
the face of the drama, were kept in business class, separated
from hovering media.


On arrival in Heathrow, the team of Royal Marines and Royal Navy
sailors were spared a high-profile arrival, in contrast to their
very public detention over the last two weeks.


Instead of emerging to a welcome party of family members and
friends among the Easter holiday crowds in arrivals, their Airbus
plane taxied to the VIP suite normally reserved for royals, prime
ministers and visiting dignitaries.


A small group of photographers and TV crews had been waiting
since early morning "airside" of the barbed wire-topped wooden
perimeter fence on the steps of the single-storey building.


In the distance across the expanse of hazy tarmac and Heathrow's
busy northern spur road, more TV news cameras lined up on the
freshly-cut, striped lawns of an airport hotel.


Others perched on top of satellite broadcasting vans and even
picnic tables for a better view, as lines of silvery jets glided
down from the skies to the east and roared to a stop on the
runway a short distance away.


Up in the air, helicopters chartered by TV news channels hovered
above the Airbus as baggage handlers took off passengers' luggage
and hoisted it onto trucks.


Then, after what seemed like an age, the marines and sailors
suddenly emerged from the shadow of a giant British Airways 747
jet alongside, striding across the tarmac towards two waiting
Royal Navy Sea King helicopters.


All of them had shed the Iranian suits and clothing given to them
by their captors.


Instead of grey suits or a headscarf, the Marines, sleeves rolled
down, were dressed in desert combat fatigues, while the sailors
were in navy blue trousers and light blue shirts.


As armed police and other military personnel looked on, the 15
then placed their holdalls and bags on the ground, and stood in a
line for a brief photo call, broad smiles across their faces.


If they said anything at all, it was lost in the roar of the
khaki-coloured helicopters' rotor blades, which whirred noisily
in the background.


Then, the flashbulbs still popping, they disappeared inside the
aircraft, which eased upwards and flew off towards south-west
England where the group will be debriefed.

