

Three suspects were charged Thursday over the July 7, 2005
suicide bombings in London which killed 52 commuters, police
said, in the first indictments since the horrific attacks.


The men -- identified as Waheed Ali, Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed
Shakil -- were involved in the "reconnaissance and planning" of
the attacks, in which four bombers blew themselves up on
underground trains and a bus, police said.


"I appreciate that bringing these charges will have an impact on
many people," said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke,
head of Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism squad.


"For some it will bring back horrible memories of that terrible
day. For others there may be some relief that after such a length
of time there is some visible progress in an investigation that
has had to be kept secret."


Their arrests last month were the first major detentions since
the bombings, in which near-simultaneous blasts caused
devastation on the London transport system during the morning
rush-hour.


The three were charged that between November 1 and June 29, 2005
"they unlawfully and maliciously conspired ... to cause
explosions on the Transport for London system and/or tourist
attractions in London," prosecutors added.


The four suicide bombers -- three of them Britons of Pakistani
origin and one a naturalised Jamaican -- died when they set off
rucksack bombs on three Underground trains and a double-decker
bus.


The attack also injured more than 700 in what was the worst
terrorist atrocity on British soil and the first such suicide
attack in Europe.


The bombings were followed exactly two weeks later by an apparent
copycat attack which failed. Six men are currently on trial for
that alleged attempt.


The three suspects charged Thursday were detained on March 22
under the Terrorism Act 2000.


At the time police said detectives had been investigating at home
and abroad since the July 7 bombings, which prompted soul-
searching about the extent of Muslim integration in British
society.


The suspected ringleader of the bombings, Mohamed Sidique Khan,
and fellow bomber Shehzad Tanweer said in videos recorded before
their deaths that British foreign policy, particularly in Iraq
and Afghanistan, motivated their actions.


The Metropolitan Police said last month that they had always been
keen to determine whether anyone else helped Khan, Tanweer, plus
fellow bombers Hasib Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay.


A May 11, 2006 report by the British parliament's Intelligence
and Security Committee said that Khan and Tanweer were "likely"
to have had contact with Al- Qaeda members while visiting
Pakistan.


A theory that a terrorist mastermind fled Britain shortly before
the bombings was discounted. In addition, there was no
intelligence to indicate there was a fourth or fifth bomber, the
committee said.

