

Renewed international focus on Somalia and pervasive exhaustion
with the incessant fighting in the war-torn country make for a
rare opportunity for peace to succeed there, a US official said
Thursday.


"I think the international community is focused on Somalia in a
way that it hasn't been in the last 16 years, so I think the
conditions are better this time around," Jendayi Frazer, the US
assistant secretary of state for African affairs, told AFP.


Since the 1991 overthrow of dictator Siad Barre, Somalia has been
plunged into a violent civil war pitting rival clans and warlords
against each other and featuring periodic famines and an
unsuccessful US intervention in 1993.


"One thing that gives me hope is that at some point people get
exhausted of killing each other," she added.


Frazer was in Cairo for a meeting of the Somalia "Contact Group"
of diplomats from Europe, Africa, and the United States, which is
seeking a solution to the ongoing chaos in the Horn of Africa
nation.


She explained that in addition to heightened international
attention, regional players now all agreed that extremists in
Somalia needed to be isolated and efforts stepped up to achieve
peace.


"There is hope for Somalia, Somalia is in Africa, the trendlines
in Africa are positive to solve these crises and these
conflicts," she said. "All of these countries in the Horn, east
Africa, the Gulf have a common view.


"So I think they have a real opportunity."


Frazer said the consensus came when countries realised that the
failed state was being used as a base by extremist Islamists from
outside Somalia.


"It's clear that there were global jihadists operating in
Mogadishu, I think that everybody had a wake up call," she said.
"None of us understood the extent to which they had found safe
haven and a base for operating in Somalia.


"We are all pretty much on the same page with Somalia," she
added.


The scenario for restoring stability to the country involves
first a ceasefire, followed by a reconciliation conference to be
held April 16, paving the way for elections in 2009 when the
transitional government's mandate ends.


An African Union (AU) peacekeeping force will be brought in to
oversee the truce, though only about half of the anticipated
8,000-strong force has been pledged yet.


Sporadic gunfire was reported overnight, but Mogadishu was
largely calm on Thursday, several days after heavy fighting
between Ethiopian forces and Islamists left nearly 400 people
dead.


Elders from Mogadishu's dominant Hawiye clan said they would
collect bodies left in the streets, and were to meet with
Ethiopian commanders on Thursday for further talks.


In December, the transitional government invited Ethiopian troops
in after it was threatened by the Islamic Courts Union, an
intervention Frazer described as unfortunate but necessary.


Ethiopian forces look set to remain until a robust African Union
force is put in place -- something that cannot happen until a
truce is reached.


Frazer expressed confidence in the AU's ability to handle the
crisis with material and logistical support from the
international community, despite their poor showing in Sudan's
Darfur crisis.


"In Sudan, you have a government that has crippled the African
Union force," she said, noting that they have prevented supplies
and material from reaching the embattled force.


"They have created an environment in which it is difficult for
them to succeed."

