

Darryl Stingley, the former New England Patriots wide receiver
who was paralyzed by a vicious hit in a 1978 National Football
League preseason game, died Thursday at he age of 55.


Stingley was pronounced dead at Northwestern Memorial Hospital
Thursday after he was found unresponsive at his home, according
to a spokesperson with the Cook County medical examiner's office.
The cause of death was not immediately known.


"This is a sad day for all who knew Darryl Stingley," Patriots
chairman Robert Kraft said. "I had the pleasure of meeting Darryl
on multiple occasions and was touched by his positive outlook on
life."


Stingley is survived by his wife, Martine, his three sons, Hank,
John and Derek and several grandchildren.


Stingley is forever connected with former Oakland Raiders safety
Jack Tatum, who was nicknamed "The Assassin" for his vicious
hits. The most infamous one came in an August 12, 1978 preseason
game when Stingley went up for a pass over the middle and was hit
from behind by Tatum, who slammed his right shoulder, forearm and
head into the outstretched receiver. The hit broke Stingley's
neck and left him a quadriplegic for life.


The two players never spoke after the incident. In 2003, Tatum
lost his left leg below the knee due to complications from
diabetes.


After Tatum lost his leg, Stingley said in an interview with the
Boston Globe that he "forgave Tatum" and took "no pleasure" in
Tatum's pain.


In 1996, representatives of Tatum proposed a reconciliation with
Stingley to be televised on Fox. But Stingley called it off


after he was informed that Tatum wanted to use the interview to
boost sales for his book entitled "Final Confessions of NFL
Assassin Jack Tatum."


Stingley served as a consultant for 12 years with the Patriots
and wrote a memoir of his life entitled "Happy to be Alive" in
1983. He started a non-profit foundation in Chicago designed to
help inner-city youth in 1993.


"In my conversations with Darryl, he always spoke of the future,
not the past," Kraft said. "I don't think he ever held grudges,
and I know that he was uncomfortable accepting anyone's sympathy.
He wanted to find ways to positively impact the lives of those
around him and did so throughout his life."

