

Augusta National Golf Club, poised to punish top players like
never before thanks to perfect conditions, awaited the afternoon
start of Tiger Woods as the 71st Masters began here Thursday.


Woods, seeking his 13th major title and third in a row, will tee
off in the third-to-last group nearly six hours after Arnold
Palmer's ceremonial tee shot signaled the start of the year's
first major championship.


Rain has fallen during the Masters each of the past nine years,
halting play in eight of them and softening the challenge that
club members hoped to present to golf's greatest by lengthening
the layout in 2002 and 2006.


This year, skies are clear, breezes are blowing and forecasts are
favorable for cool and dry weather that could play into the hands
of top-ranked Woods as he bids for a fifth green jacket, the
sartorial sign of Masters supremacy.


A victory would put reigning British Open and PGA Championship
king Woods on the verge of a second "Tiger Slam" - ownership of
all four major titles at once although not in a calendar year.


Woods tees off alongside England's Paul Casey and Australian
Aaron Baddeley among a host of contenders at the end of the day,
including Fiji's Vijay Singh, Irishman Padraig Harrington and
England's Luke Donald.


Defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson, partnered by Adam
Scott and US Amateur champion Richie Ramsay of Scotland, tees off
near the middle of the pack in late morning.


Those around him include South African Ernie Els, Spain's Sergio
Garcia and Jose Maria Olazabal, England's Justin Rose, Sweden's
Henrik Stenson and reigning US Open champion Geoff Ogilvy of
Australia.


The first-ever Masters field featuring more international
challengers than US hopefuls teed off in the morning chill amid
the majestic pine trees and fragrant flowers that have become
trademarks of the hallowed course.


England's Ian Poulter, wearing a porkpie hat and flashy red
shirt, joined American Billy Mayfair in the first group, opening
matters for a field of 97 featuring 50 non-US players.


Mayfair managed the first birdie of the day at the par-5 second
hole.


Poulter began the charge for a European contingent hungry to
claim its first major victory since Scotsman Paul Lawrie took the
1999 British Open.


Nick O'Hern, playing in the second group, was the first Aussie on
the course trying to break the Masters jinx for Down Under
golfers. The Masters is the only major event that has never been
won by an Australian.

