

Slovakia's economy is on track for further growth and should meet
adoption criteria for the euro in early 2009, the Organisation
for Economic Cooperation and Development said Thursday.


"Slovakia is well positioned to meet the conditions for euro
adoption in 2009," OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria told a
Bratislava news conference as he presented the group's report on
Slovakia.


Eurozone criteria for public deficit, overall debt and inflation
appeared to be within reach without problems, he added.


Slovakia's "stellar economic performance," with record 8.3
percent growth last year, should continue at around 7.5 percent
this year and 8.0 percent in 2008, before falling back to roughly
5.25 percent in 2005, the 30-nation OECD said.


The upbeat report nonetheless contained some warnings for the
former communist Central European country and the left-wing
dominated coalition government of Robert Fico, which swept to
power in June 2006.


Fico's government, which raised the minimum wage by 10.1 percent
as one of its first moves in October, should weigh carefully the
consequences on the economy and employment market, especially for
low skilled workers, before further increases, the report warned.


Steps to rewrite existing labour laws, which is some cases would
boost social equity by giving part time workers a fairer deal,
should also avoid creating extra obstacles, it added.


In spite of significant steps to reduce the jobless total to 13.0
percent last year, long-term unemployment at around 10.0 percent
is still the highest in the OECD and requires more government
action.


The report suggested incentives for lowest paid workers, which
would also help tackle poverty, and moves to encourage workers to
move to where jobs are on offer.


Slovakia's high productivity gains in recent years have been
based on introduction of new technology and know-how. In the
future, the government should improve the education level, which
trails the OECD average, the report said.


Education of the large Roma minority, which accounts for around
seven percent of the population, was particularly poor, the
report said citing official figures showing three-quarters of
them at best received a primary school education.


Brakes on business, such as high administration costs and
obstacles, and weak competition in some areas of the economy such
as retailing and energy should also be tackled, the report adds.


Privatisation should be relaunced in some areas where competition
is lacking, such as energy and telecommunications, the report
said. Fico's government has put a brake on sales of state assets.


Adoption of the single currency would likely result in a sharp
fall in interest rates, sparking an economic boom and triggering
"a boom bust cycle," the report warned.


Fortunately, the government's long-term budget reform measures,
due to continue into 2010, should give it room to take measures
to boost or suppress  growth, it added.


The OECD is an international economics institution that counts
many of the world's most industrialised countries as members.

