

The British naval personnel who were seen "confessing" on Iranian
television during detention fell into a trap where the normal
rules of capture did not apply, former military officers said
Thursday.


Though questions are being asked in Britain about whether they
said too much and handed Iran a propaganda victory, the sailors
and marines may have behaved correctly under the circumstances,
the ex-officers told AFP.


"They were not prisoners of war, so capture training does not
apply," said Major Charles Heyman, who edits the review Armed
Forces of the United Kingdom.


In war, officers said, military captives are required to reveal
only their name, rank, serial number and date of birth, but
Britain is not at war with Iran and the crew were on a UN mission
aimed at stopping smuggling in the Gulf.


In addition, Heyman said, some of the crew appeared on television
speaking to Iranian civilian rather than military authorities,
which also reinforced the notion that they should cooperate.


"With hindsight, they probably" acted correctly under the
circumstances, Heyman said. "It's possible they said too much at
times... It's really a difficult one."


The problem is that the Iranians scored a "propaganda coup" with
some of the 15 apparently confessing on television to having
trespassed into Iranian waters, he added.


Patrick Mercer, a former British infantry officer, told AFP that
Leading Seaman Faye Turney and others had appeared to send coded
messages that they were not making open "so-called" confessions,
such as referring to their ship by its pennant number rather than
its name, HMS Cornwall.


"Her words are that she and her colleagues had come from Foxtrot
99. Now, no sailor would ever say that," Mercer said.


All "behaved with exemplary coolness and courage," he added.


However, he said he was concerned with a letter published
recently in a British newspaper and attributed to a former naval
officer who said training was inadequate for capture situations.


"I've no doubt there will be a wide-ranging investigation by the
Royal Navy, which will include rules of engagement," Mercer said,
adding he would not prejudge the Navy's reaction.


Until now, he said, "they have been operating under United
Nations rules of engagement, rather than British rules of
engagement, therefore they have been told to react in order to
save life at all costs," Mercer said.


"They are not there as aggressors, they are there as
peacekeepers," Mercer added.


Paul Rees, a former Royal Marine commando, said it is still too
early to tell whether the 15 were properly trained for their
mission and on its potential risks as well as how their behaviour
once captured.


"No-one can really make exact comments about whether they said
too much or they said too little," he said.


It is possible that the crew may have been advised by the naval
chain of command, which had been contact with Britsh diplomats,
to be open with the Iranian authorities.


"They have nothing to hide. They are working under the United
Nations agreement. They're working alongside the Iraqis anyway,"
he added.


"The captain on board HMS Cornwall wouldn't have made any rash
decisions on his own...He would have had to inform the admiralty
straight away by flash signal back in London," Rees said.


However, key questions were being asked, according to Rees, who
is managing director of Centurion, which trains businessmen,
journalists and others in how to cope with hostile environments.


"The big question here is did say they too much," such as
apparently admitting they were in Iranian waters, Rees said.


"We cannot say here that they shouldn't have done that because we
don't know what was going on behind the scenes" where they were
held in Iran, said

