

The "dust bowl," a Depression-era environmental disaster that
drove 500,000 people from the southwestern United States, may
soon return, US scientists warned in a report out Thursday.


The study shows that the same area is "expected to dry up notably
in this century and could become as arid as the North American
dust bowl of the 1930s," according to the April 6 issue of
Science magazine.


Scientists from NASA, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) and several universities had funding from
the National Science Foundation for the study, which used 19
computer climate projection models.


They found that the process may already be under way.


"The recent prolonged drought (in that area) is probably the
beginning of the climate change," the lead author of the study,
climatologist Richard Seager of Columbia University in New York,
said in a statement accompanying the study.


"This will be a challenge to the residents that depend on the
cheap and ready availability of water for industrial and
agricultural economies," it said.


The study forms part of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change's Fourth Assessment Report.


The more arid climate will be unlike any conditions that exist on
record for the area, which covers the southwest of the United
States and parts of northern Mexico, the scientists said.


Unlike that area's recent droughts, which were caused by sea
surface temperatures in the tropical Pacific Ocean know as El
Nino, they said, "the new aridity is caused by a poleward
expansion of the subtropical dry zones."


Earth's atmosphere has been warming since the dawn of the
industrial revolution, scientists say, because humans are
releasing large amounts of gases such as carbon dioxide and
methane.


These so-called greenhouse gases gather in Earth's upper
atmosphere and, while they allow the sun's rays in, do not allow
their heat out, acting much like the glass in a greenhouse.


While the greenhouse effect is necessary for life on the planet,
scientists agree that Earth's rising temperature has already
begun to melt polar ice caps and change weather.

