

Pakistan on Thursday rejected a US media report that it was
secretly aiding a militant group for attacks across the border in
Iran as "tendentious", the foreign office said.


"The Foreign Office takes serious note of the tendentious ABC
News report alleging that a group called 'Jundullah (Soldier of
God)' was operating from inside Pakistan to carry out raids
across the border into Iran," an official statement said.


It described as an "absurd and sinister insinuation" that
Pakistan was part of a "secret campaign" against Iran.


A report on the website of US channel ABC News on Wednesday said
US officials have secretly encouraged and advised a Pakistani
tribal militant group responsible for several deadly attacks
inside Iran.


It added that the Sunni Muslim group Jundullah comprises members
of the Baluchi tribe and operates out of Pakistan's southwestern
Baluchistan province.


The report quoted Pakistani tribal sources as saying that money
for the group is funnelled to its young leader, named as Abd el
Malik Regi, through Iranian exiles who have connections with
European and Gulf states.


It quoted Pakistani government sources as saying that the
campaign against Iran by Jundullah was on the agenda when Vice
President Dick Cheney met with Pakistani President Pervez
Musharraf in February.


A senior US government official said groups like Jundullah have
been "helpful" in tracking Al-Qaeda militants and that it was
appropriate for the US to deal with such groups in that context,
the report said.


But the foreign office denied the report.


"Pakistan will never allow its territory for carrying out acts of
terrorism and violence against any country," it said.


"Pakistan has active cooperation with Iran to curb any criminal
and terrorist activity by any group including so-called
Jundullah," it said.


"Pakistan and Iran enjoy close friendly relations and we condemn
any attempt to create misgivings between the two brotherly
countries."


Jundullah recently took credit for a car bomb in Zahedan, capital
of the Iranian province of Sistan-Baluchestan bordering Pakistan,
in which 13 Iranian Revolutionary Guards were killed.


Iran summoned Pakistan's ambassador after the unrest last month
and both sides agreed to tighten border security.


Pakistani agents on March 23 recovered three Iranian police who
were kidnapped by the same group and handed them back to
authorities in Iran, while a fourth was believed to have been
killed.


A videotape attributed to Jundullah and aired on Al-Arabiya
television on March 8 purportedly showed the men on their knees,
while two masked gunmen stood behind them.

