

Fifteen British naval personnel held by Iran returned home on
Thursday, overjoyed after their surprise release ended a two week
diplomatic battle.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair declared that "no deal" was
made to free the 15 and called for renewed pressure on Iran.


The Islamic state was equally insistent that Britain had
apologised and that Tehran had "achieved its objectives".


The eight sailors and seven marines flew from Tehran to London
Heathrow airport one day after Iran's President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad said he was freeing them as a "gift" to the people of
Britain.


Having exchanged the ill-fitting suits they were given in Tehran
for military uniforms, the 15 got off a British Airways in
London, posed quickly for photographers and got straight onto a
military helicopter. This flew them to a military base in Devon,
southwest England, for a reunion with their families and a
debriefing.


The 14 men and one woman were seized by Iranian forces in the
northern Gulf on March 23. Iran accused them of illegally
entering Iranian territorial waters. Britain insists they were in
Iraqi waters.


Both sides came out of the dispute claiming at least a moral
victory.


Blair came out of his Downing Street office as the jet landed to
say that the release had been obtained "without any deal, without
any negotiation, without any side agreement of any nature
whatever".


The group's return coincided with the deaths of four British
soldiers in Iraq, which Blair said showed the "ugly reality" of
terrorism in the region. He also renewed accusations of Iran's
links to terrorism.


"Just as we rejoice at the return of our 15 personnel, so today
we also grieve and mourn for the loss of our soldiers in Basra
who were killed as a result of a terrorist act," he said.


"It's far too early to say that the particular terrorist act that
killed our forces was an act committed by terrorists who were
backed by any elements of the Iranian regime, so I make no
allegation in respect of that particular incident," he said.


"But the general picture, as I have said before, is there are
elements at least of the Iranian regime that are backing,
financing, arming terrorism in Iraq."


He added: "The international community has got to remain
absolutely steadfast in enforcing its will, whether it is in
respect of nuclear weapons or whether it is in respect of the
support of any part of the Iranian regime for terrorism."


A top Iranian official said Iran had also "achieved its
objectives" in the captive crisis.


Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign minister and now advisor to
supreme leader Ali Khamenei, said Britain sent a letter of
apology to Iran the day before Ahmadinejad freed the 15.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran showed that it will defend its
territorial integrity and has no fear," said Velayati.


"It achieved its objectives in pardoning the British sailors," he
was quoted as saying by state television.


The release was welcomed by governments around the world and UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon telephoned Ahmadinejad to express
his appreciation for the release of the British sailors, Iranian
state media reported.


At a press conference on Wednesday Ahmadinejad said that Britain
had sent a letter promising its military would not enter Iranian
waters.


He chided Britain for its "media hype" during the crisis and
decorated a Revolutionary Guards commander who seized the
Britons.


Britain was infuriated at the way the only woman captive, Faye
Turney, and some of her male colleagues were paraded on Iranian
television and shown making apologies that British ministers said
appeared coerced.


The 15 were again shown on Iranian television before their
departure, celebrating and again apologising.


"I was so happy that I was not able to sleep all night," said
Lieutenant Felix Carman, quoted on Iranian state television.


"To Iranian people, I can understand why you were insulted by our
apparent intrusion into your waters," he said.


Two of the sailors -- including Turney -- waved to the camera and
said "Teshakkor" or thank you in Persian.


The new footage showed the 15 opening colourful bags containing
traditional gifts before their departure for London.


Friends and relatives of the captured navy personnel spent much
of the night popping champagne corks in Britain after the
surprise announcement.


"We've been absolutely devastated these last 13 days, it's been
the longest of my life. I'm just so happy today," said April
Rawsthorne, grandmother of 21 -year-old Nathan Summers, clutching
a bottle of champagne.


The stand-off further damaged ties between Tehran and the West
already frayed by Iran's nuclear programme and sent world oil
prices to a seven month high.


The release followed a propaganda war played out in the two
countries' media but also behind-the scenes diplomacy, including
reports that Syria and Qatar helped with the release.

