

Two walkers missing since mid-February in the jungle of French
Guiana, turned up Thursday after having spent seven weeks living
off river water, seeds -- and the meat of two turtles.


Frenchmen Loic Pillois, 34, turned up at the small town of Saul,
central Guiana, at 10:00 am (1300 GMT).


He tipped off the authorities that his friend Guilhem Nayral, 34,
was about six hours walk away to the south and the emergency
services found him and airlifted him to safety four hours later.


"We found him stretched out on the ground, completely exhausted,
very thin, dehydrated, but not injured," Martin Andre, deputy
commander of the local gendarmerie, told AFP.


"When I took him in my arms, he burst into tears," he added.


Nayral is currently being treated at Cayenne hospital, where a
spokesman said he was being treated for extreme fatigue.


Pillois, who arrived a little earlier, was interviewed at the
gendarmerie before also being admitted for treatment.


Although he seemed weak, he was strong enough to get out of the
helicopter without help. His bearded face was drawn and he wore
shorts and a T-shirt with the words "Never stop exploring"
printed on it.


The only thing he said was: "It's really hot."


Local officials opened an investigation in the middle of March
over their disappearance and about 40 gendarmes searched the
jungle for three weeks in March.


The search was scaled down to just eight men towards the end of
the month.


They had headed off in the middle of February for the Grand
Kanori rapids, on the banks of the river Approuague, in the heart
of Guiana.


They had only intended to stay there 10 days but had become lost
despite their maps and compasses.


Pillois told the gendarmes that they survived the seven weeks
drinking river water, eating seeds and the flesh of two turtles
that they had managed to kill.


Pillois' wife told AFP from Toulouse in southwest France that she
was never really worried for the pair.


"Five years ago, they had already walked around Saul, with a
friend who was an expert in insects.


"He told them that if they got lost in the jungle, they could
always eat certain bugs."

