

World oil prices slid on profit-taking Thursday ahead of the
Easter holiday weekend, reversing earlier gains that were linked
to a massive plunge in US motor fuel reserves, traders said.


They also expressed relief that the two-week standoff between
Britain and key crude producer Iran was at an end. The 15 British
naval personnel held by Iran returned to London on Thursday,
overjoyed at their surprise release.


In late London trades, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery fell 30 cents to 68.10 dollars in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, shed 24 cents to 64.14 dollars in floor trading.


Prices had traded in positive territory for much of Thursday as
dealers digested news that US gasoline reserves plummeted by five
million barrels last week -- far more than market expectations
for a drop of just 300,000 barrels.


"The primary driver at the moment is the data that came out, it
wrong-footed the market," Bank of Ireland analyst Paul Harris
said.


"The fact it was so different from market expectations was hugely
relevant coming ahead of the US driving season," Harris said.


Motor fuel stocks are being closely watched before the driving
season, which starts next month, when many Americans hit the
roads for their summer holidays.


Crude futures had struck a seven-month peak of 69.58 dollars per
barrel in London on Monday as the crisis with Iran, which is the
world's fourth biggest oil producer, sparked fears that the
Islamic republic could disrupt exports.


But prices tumbled as low as 66.93 in London and 63.56 in New
York on Wednesday after Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
defused the crisis by pardoning the 15 sailors and marines as a
"gift" to the British people.


The eight sailors and seven marines flew from Tehran to London
Heathrow airport on Thursday.


"Prices have eased due to the definite, peaceful resolution of
the row between Britain and Iran," said Victor Shum, an analyst
with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz in Singapore.


"But the market is still supported by enough fundamental factors
to keep prices from sliding too far down, so the easing has been
rather modest."


Among the factors supporting higher prices was a sharper-than-
expected fall in US gasoline or petrol inventories, recent US
refinery outages and lingering concerns over Iran's nuclear
programme, he added.


The sailor crisis came at a perilous time for Iran's relations
with the West, with the United States refusing to rule out
military action over Iran's disputed nuclear programme.


Tehran has said its nuclear research is for peaceful purposes,
not a cover to build an atomic bomb as suspected by Western
powers.


High oil prices are the result of geopolitical tensions, rather
than a shortage of crude supplies, according to OPEC ministers
gathered for an oil industry conference in Paris on Thursday.


"The high prices of late are due to the geopolitical situation.
It has nothing to do with the fundamentals," OPEC President
Mohammed al-Hamili, who is also oil minister for the United Arab
Emirates, said on the sidelines of the conference.


But Claude Mandil, the head of the International Energy Agency,
an energy watchdog for rich countries, said that prices were too
high and that supply was "a bit too low."


"The oil supply is in our view a bit too low because we are in a
period when stocks should be built and we are not sure that
stocks are being built right now," he told AFP.

