

The United States will overcome a housing slowdown and avert
recession, while the rest of the global economy is in sound
health, the International Monetary Fund said Thursday.


"The message here is reassuring: we do not think the US is
heading for recession," the IMF's new chief economist Simon
Johnson told a news conference.


Johnson acknowledged the housing slowdown underway in the world's
largest economy, "but we're not seeing it spread beyond
residential construction."


Neighboring Canada and Mexico could feel some effects from the US
housing market, "but it won't spill over to the broader global
economy," the economist said.


"If the United States sneezes, you should worry about other parts
of the world catching cold. But at the moment, other parts of the
world are healthy," he added.


"The US economy has also been taking its vitamins. While there
are problems in one important sector and a couple of regions of
the United States, overall the economy is very healthy."


Johnson was speaking after the release of a portion of the IMF's
semi-annual World Economic Outlook. The full report, with
projections for global growth, is to be released next week just
ahead of the Fund's annual spring meeting.


The IMF report said also that some of the world's economic
imbalances may be corrected as the dollar's value declines. The
massive US trade gap -- of 763.6 billion dollars in 2006 -- is
among key concerns for finance officials as surpluses and
currency reserves mount in countries such as China.


The IMF concluded that "a real US dollar depreciation of less
than 10 percent could bring about a one percent of GDP (gross
domestic product) narrowing in the US trade deficit."


The US current account deficit is already looking better, Johnson
said: "It looks like that part of the global imbalances has
turned the corner."


In another section, the report said the "effective global labor
force" has risen fourfold over the past two decades, reflecting
population growth and the increasing integration of China, India,
and the former Eastern bloc.


But the report appeared to acknowledge that globalization has
pushed down wages in wealthy countries, especially in European
countries and among unskilled workers.


"Looking ahead, it is important to maximize the benefits from
labor globalization and technological advancements, while working
to address the distributional impact of these ongoing changes,"
it cautioned.


Up to now, according to the Federal Reserve, the US economy
remains on track for moderate growth in 2007 despite a severe
slump in housing, although some data suggest a softening of
business investment.


The Fed predicts US GDP growth in a range of 2.5 to 3.0 percent
for 2007, compared to 3.3 percent last year.


"We think the US is going to bounce back pretty quickly," Johnson
said, adding: "The US is a significant part of the (global)
economy ... but it's not by any means the whole story.


"The contribution of China and India and other emerging markets
is definitely positive."


The IMF report said any slowdown in the US economy "can exert
spillovers" in both advanced and developing countries, especially
to those with strong trade ties to the United States.


But it stressed: "With the US slowdown to date largely driven by
the cooling domestic housing market, spillovers to growth
elsewhere have been limited.


"If the housing market downturn spread to consumption and
business investment, however, then cross-border spillovers could
be significantly larger, although still manageable, provided
affected countries respond promptly and flexibly."

