

Australia star Adam Gilchrist has described the atmosphere for
World Cup matches as "sterile" and said it was disappointing that
so many matches are being played in front of meagre crowds.


"Just talking to the locals, they are very aware of it and very
excited for it to be here, but that's not translating into big
numbers in the grounds which is disappointing as a player," said
Gilchrist.


"You come to the Caribbean to experience that unique atmosphere
that is Caribbean cricket but there is certainly an element of
the sterile feel about it," the double World Cup-winner added.


"I don't know whether that's because the administration hasn't
let it flow or whether people just aren't turning up."


Some have said it is because organisers haven't "let it flow"
that crowds have been so small.


For example, spectators are allowed to bring conch shells and
other musical instruments, which have long contributed to the
atmosphere of cricket in the Caribbean, into grounds but they
have to get written permission beforehand from the local
organising committee.


Only 9,000 people turned up at the 19,000 capacity Sir Vivian
Richards Stadium here for the first day of Australia's rain-
interrupted 103-run win against hosts West Indies last Tuesday
for what was one of the showpiece games of the tournament.


The low attendance surprised Australia captain Ricky Ponting and
disappointed his West Indies counterpart Brian Lara.


But Gilchrist was optimistic that as the World Cup neared the
final stages, so crowds would improve.


"It's a little bit frustrating. Hopefully as it gets more to the
serious end of the tournament, we'll see the big crowds and that
atmosphere arrive."


World Cup officials insisted that they have not priced local fans
out of the market for tickets with the cheapest seats on offer at
25 US dollars.


However, International Cricket Council chief executive Malcolm
Speed, quoted on the CricInfo website, said: "We had to rely on
the advice of the local organising committee to establish the
prices of the tickets. It is, in retrospect, a little too rich
for the local palate."


And Jack Warner, president of CONCACAF, the Caribbean and North
American Football Federation, said of ticket costs: "This has
been a World Cup for the organisers, the visitors and the players
but certainly not for the people. "That's why the stadiums are
empty and that in itself is a con job. It's the biggest con job
ever passed off in this region."


Meanwhile, the poor form of hosts West Indies and the early exits
of Asian giants India and Pakistan, whose supporters officials
were hoping would boost both attendances and island economies,
have been a blow to the prospects of sold-out stadiums.


Gilchrist called on World Cup chiefs to slash ticket prices in a
"one-off" sale.


"Whatever the policy is at the moment, it doesn't seem to be
working. So maybe we can look at dropping the price and have a
sale."


However, he added: "It's not my job to set prices. I don't know
the finances of the World Cup but ideally it would be nice if it
could fill up."


Free tickets were offered to local fans for the second innings of
Sri Lanka's dramatic two-run Super Eights win against England
here Wednesday, but the move appeared too late to boost a crowd
officially estimated at 7,500 after the first innings.


However, England's Ravi Bopara, named man of the match following
his last ball dismissal for 52, thanked a crowd where noisy
English fans did their best to compensate for the lack of
numbers.


"The atmosphere was top-notch. The fans were great," he said. "It
was great noise and it does get you going as a batsman."


World champions Australia play England in Antigua on Sunday.

