

Two French aid workers missing in Afghanistan for two days have
likely been kidnapped by Taliban militants, officials said
Thursday after the rebels claimed they had abducted the pair.


The French nationals have been out of contact with their
organisation, Terre d'Enfance (A World for Our Children), since
Tuesday when they and three Afghan colleagues set off from the
province of Nimroz westwards to neighbouring Farah.


The Taliban militia, who have mounted a bloody insurgency since
they were ousted by US-led forces in 2001, claimed late Wednesday
to have captured the five but this could not be independently
confirmed.


"I strongly believe they've been kidnapped by Taliban. I don't
see other reasons for their disappearance but being kidnapped,"
Nimroz provincial governor Gulam Dastgir Azad told AFP by
telephone.


"They'd not informed authorities about their trip. Their
carelessness led to their kidnapping," the governor said.


The governor said he had mobilised some 200 members of the
security forces in a massive search operation in the district
where locals last saw their vehicle.


"We hope these forces locate the missing people," he added.


Earlier, a high-ranking Afghan security official speaking on
condition of anonymity told AFP: "There's a strong possibility
that they've been kidnapped." Asked by whom, the official said:
"Obviously the Taliban."


In Paris, a foreign ministry official said France was doing its
utmost to try to help the kidnapped aid workers but declined to
make details public.


"We are obviously totally mobilised around this case and are
working in liaison with Afghan authorities and the NGO
concerned," said foreign ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei.


"As always in these circumstances, we are observing the utmost
discretion," he said, adding that the foreign ministry had "taken
note" of the Taliban claim to have captured the two French aid
workers and three Afghan colleagues.


If confirmed as a kidnapping, it would be the second such case
involving foreign nationals in a month. An Italian journalist was
kidnapped March 5 by the Taliban in Helmand province, which
adjoins Nimroz.


Daniele Mastrogiacomo was released two weeks later, after the
government freed five Taliban prisoners including some high-
profile figures in a controversial deal.


The Taliban are still holding Mastrogiacomo's translator, Afghan
reporter Ajmal Naqshbandi, and have demanded the release of two
more Taliban in exchange for his freedom. The rebels beheaded a
driver captured with them.


Critics of the deal, including foreign governments, diplomats,
and journalists, said the exchange of the Italian journalist for
Taliban could lead to more such kidnappings by militants and
criminals.


"We're seeing increased cases of kidnappings since the beginning
of this year. It's going to increase further (following the
Mastrogiacomo deal)," said a Western diplomat on condition of
anonymity.


But Afghan foreign ministry spokesman Sultan Ahmad Baheen said
there would be "no further deals with the terrorists again" if it
is confirmed that the Taliban abducted the French nationals.


The Taliban have so far not made any demands for the release of
their new hostages.


The rebels are also holding five Afghan medics they kidnapped
last week in the southern province of Kandahar.

