

Long-serving British Formula One driver David Coulthard warned on
Thursday that the future safety of drivers is again a potential
major issue in the sport.


After studying videos of his own collision with close friend
Austrian Alex Wurz's Williams-Toyota car in last month's season-
opening Australian Grand Prix, Coulthard, 36, said he realised he
had gone very close to a massive accident.


And without saying so, the veteran of 212 Grands Prix in a
13-years career, made it clear there was a danger of a massive
and potentially fatal head injury because of the way in which his
own Red Bull car had gone over the cockpit of Wurz's car.


Coulthard said: "I think it highlighted just how at risk the
driver can be in that kind of situation. I never, obviously, when
I started the manoeuvre, ever imagined that I would crash into
Alex,


"And if I was silly enough to start that manoeuvre thinking that
was going to happen, I would never imagine I would come across
the top of the cockpit missing him by a very small amount.


"So, inevitably, that is an area that will be talked about and
looked at for the future for safety.


"It is part of Formula One to have open cockpits and obviously in
the last decade we have had the head impacts panel thing, or
whatever you call it, developed and that has improved safety a
good deal but I think we can continue to work in that area."


Ironically, Coulthard owed his breakthrough and Formula One debut
at the 1994 Spanish Grand Prix to the fatal head injury suffered
by Brazilian Ayrton Senna when he crashed and died at the San
Marino Grand Prix on May 1 that year.


That accident and the death 24 hours earlier of Austrian Roland
Ratzenberger in qualifying for the race ushered in a massive
round of new safety regulations covering cars and circuits.


There have been no deaths in Formula One since then.


Coulthard said he was not proposing an immediate switch to closed
cockpits.


"I think that goes against the basic rules and regulations for a
Formula One car, as an open top," said Coulthard.


"My recommendation would be that any discussion with the
Technical Working Group is brought forward because inevitably in
these situations it is when it is brought home how easy it would
be to have a serious incident, then it moves it up the importance
list.


"When I spoke to Patrick Head after the event, he suggested it
was a couple of years away before they might look at doing
something, but maybe now it could be possible to have an improved
cockpit protection for next season already, so that is something
to be discussed and agreed."

