

India's top representative in revolt-hit Kashmir on Thursday
ruled out demilitarisation of the Himalayan state, saying the
army must remain in the region to protect Indian borders.


"The army has to be permanently located in Kashmir to defend its
borders," governor S.K. Sinha said in a statement.


"Demilitarisation per se cannot take place in Jammu and Kashmir
just as there can be no demilitarisation in Punjab, Rajasthan or
any other border state of the country," he said.


The states border nuclear rival Pakistan, which has linked
Kashmir's demilitarisation to forging a lasting peace with India.


Sinha, who served as lieutenant general in India's army, added
troop cuts could only come after a 17-year-old Islamic separatist
insurgency ends in Indian Kashmir.


"The present additional role of the army in terms of restoring
internal peace in a state, which is a victim of terrorism, can
cease only when peace is restored," he said.


The troops, Sinha said, can then return to barracks or their
overall strength in the state can be reduced "but that will not
be demilitarisation."


Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf has called for Kashmir's
demilitarisation as a move toward finally ending the six decades
of hostility between India and Pakistan over the region.


Some dozen rebel groups are active in Kashmir, most of them
fighting to break Kashmir away from India and join it with
Pakistan. Few want the region, once a hit tourist spot, to be an
independent state.


The region's chief minister, Ghulam Nabi Azad, objected earlier
this week to any demilitarisation or cut in troop levels in the
state, saying it would "directly help" Islamic militants.


New Delhi last week set up a panel to review a possible cut in
troop levels, after demands by a regional ally of the federal
ruling Congress party, which is part of a coalition governing
Kashmir


The announcement came after a fall in violence in the state.


India has deployed an estimated half a million troops and
paramilitary soldiers in Kashmir, the trigger of two of the three
wars between India and Pakistan since their 1947 independence
from the British.


Many Kashmiri politicians have long pushed for the withdrawal of
troops from the region.

