

The 15 British detainees held in Iran were greeted with hugs and
handshakes Thursday as they arrived at a base in southwest
England to be reunited with their families.


Relieved relatives, some of whom had described the past two weeks
as a living "nightmare", gathered at the Royal Marines Base
Chivenor in Devon to welcome the navy personnel back after from
their ordeal in Iran.


The seven marines and eight sailors arrived here in two Sea King
military helicopters after switching from the British Airways
flight that took them from Tehran to London's Heathrow airport.


Footage from television helicopters showed them being embraced by
fellow servicemen immediately after landing, before heading for
medical checks and a full de-briefing.


"They will be given an opportunity tonight in a suitable location
to enjoy their first night of freedom with their families," said
Royal Marines Lieutenant Colonel Andy Price.


Diane Andrews, the grandmother of Royal Marine Joe Tindall, 21,
said her family had gone through turmoil.


She felt "just relief that it's all over and we can stop waking
up with empty feelings in our stomachs and think today is a good
day and it's all all right.


"I'm afraid I thought the worst and thought something dreadful
was going to happen," she told BBC radio from the family home in
southeast London.


"As the days went by we got a little bit more hopeful. But then
we still had bad days when we kept hearing they weren't coming
out for weeks.


"So that's been up and down for nearly two weeks."


The family of Royal Navy Operator Maintainer Andrew Henderson,
23, were taken aback by the news of his release Wednesday in
Tehran.


"It has been very hard, particularly for Andrew's mum Diane as he
is an only child," said .


"We are going to party now, there will be a big celebration for
Andrew when he gets back home," said his aunt Barbara Pye.


"His grandmother is also planning to cook him his favourite
Sunday roast dinner as he looked very hungry on the television.


"It is just brilliant, brilliant news for all the families."


Henderson's grandfather Roy Ashfield, from Wrexham in northeast
Wales, said: "We are a very large family and we had everyone over
last night for a big barbecue to celebrate.


"It has been a very hard few weeks but the mood now is fantastic.


"It is cracking news he is coming home, I feel grand."


Theresa Fowler, the aunt of 22-year-old Royal Marine Andrew
Sperry, told BBC television at the family house in Leicester,
central England that his relatives had been on an emotional
"roller-coaster."


"We're just longing to see him and put our arms around him and
give him a kiss," she said.


The marine's grandmother Margaret Sperry added: "I felt I
couldn't stand no more. That is all I want to do, just hold him
to me. This is just magic."

