

Iran's nuclear chief Ali Larijani has told the European Union
there was no chance Tehran would suspend its programme of uranium
enrichment, state television reported on Thursday.


He made the comments in a telephone conversation on Wednesday
with the EU's top diplomat, Javier Solana.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran is ready to negotiate only on non-
diversion (of its nuclear programme for military purposes) and
not on its nuclear rights," Larijani was quoted as saying by an
official of the supreme council for national security, which he
heads.


"Iran will not accept any preconditions or suspension for a time.
Nor can suspending enrichment be a precondition or the result of
negotiations" with the five permanent UN Security Council members
plus Germany, he was quoted as saying.


Solana has been charged with trying to entice Tehran back to the
negotiating table.


"There was a conversation yesterday," an EU official said on
Thursday in Brussels on condition of anonymity. "They agreed to
keep in contact, but only by telephone for now."


The aim of the talks is to try to find common ground to resume
the negotiations on the basis of a previous offer made by the
international community, the official added.


The offer includes political, economic and trade incentives for
Iran to halt uranium enrichment, which is necessary to produce
nuclear energy but can also be used to make an atomic bomb at
highly refined levels.


Western countries fear that Tehran is trying to develop a nuclear
weapon covertly under the guise of a civilian energy programme.


Iran says it simply wants to generate electricity and has refused
to suspend enrichment as a precondition for talks.


The UN Security Council has imposed two sets of sanctions on
Tehran over its nuclear programme, and the United States has
never ruled out the option of military action to bring Iran to
heel.


The White House on Thursday declined to call Iran's release a day
earlier of 15 captive British sailors and marines a new sign of
goodwill, and said Tehran must freeze sensitive nuclear work.


"What would show that they are more in line with the
international community is to comply with the UN Security Council
resolutions, and suspend their uranium enrichment and
reprocessing activities," national security council spokesman
Gordon Johndroe told reporters.


"We're pleased that they released the sailors. We just wish they
hadn't detained them in the first place."


Meanwhile, it was announced that Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad will visit the key Iranian nuclear plant in the
central city of Natanz on Monday to mark the national day of
nuclear technology.


He has promised that he will soon be announcing "good news" about
Iran's nuclear programme, and news of his visit is likely to fuel
speculation he will choose the occasion to make an important
announcement.


The head of Iran's atomic energy organisation, Gholam Reza
Aghazadeh, had said on Monday that the Islamic republic would be
announcing good news on its nuclear programme next week.


Natanz is the where Iran carries out its uranium enrichment.


Iran has vowed to install thousands of uranium enriching
centrifuges at the plant to bring its enrichment to an industrial
scale but so far it has only confirmed the completion of a
fraction of this number.

