

Martin O'Neill will be allowed to dig into a substantial transfer
warchest this summer as Aston Villa's new owners set their sights
on joining English football's elite in the Champions League.


In his first season in charge, O'Neill has brought in giant
Norwegian striker John Carew from Lyon, former Watford forward
Ashley Young and two of his former charges at Celtic: Stilian
Petrov and Shaun Maloney.


But despite a hugely-promising start, Villa look set to finish
the campaign in the bottom half of the table and the club's chief
executive, Richard FitzGerald, acknowledged that further
investment is required if they are to move on to the next level.


FitzGerald stressed that American owner Randy Lerner was ready to
put his hand in his pocket as Villa dream of a return to the
glory days of the early 1980's, when their league title was
followed by triumph in the 1982 European Cup.


"We want to be around the top of the Premiership and playing
Champions League football and you need world class players to do
that," Fitzgerald said.


"We showed in January that we are prepared to make a big
commitment to bringing players in and Randy Lerner has freed up a
transfer pot for Martin O'Neill.


"People might have thought we pushed the boat out in signing
Ashley Young (for 9.65 million pounds/19 million dollars) but I
can guarantee significant funds have been made available which is
money coming from the owner.


"No-one has put a figure on the sum but we wouldn't have come out
and said we want to be competing at the top of the Premiership
and be in the Champions League if we didn't know what that
entailed."


O'Neill is already being linked with a host of players including
Liverpool striker Craig Bellamy, who played briefly under the
Irishman at Celtic, Tottenham and England forward Jermain Defoe
and Celtic's highly-rated Polish goalkeeper, Artur Boruc.


The plans for the future will not however prevent O'Neill from
trying to squeeze another season out of former Liverpool winger
Patrik Berger.


The manager, a specialist in squeezing the best out of
30-something stars, revealed on Wednesday that he expects the
Czech international to stay at the club next season following the
expiry of his current deal in the summer.


Berger, 33, was loaned out to Stoke in November following a
breach of club discipline and appeared to be living on borrowed
time at Villa Park.


But he has recently returned to the first team and convinced
O'Neill his quality is worth retaining.


"There are not too many players outside of the top teams at this
minute who have Patrik's vision," he said. "I never said his
career here was finished, but you would have got long odds on the
contribution he has made after going to Stoke because he didn't
really get into their team.


"He came back, and I think the realisation that the great days as
a footballer playing in front of big crowds might be over has
maybe given him that inspiration which has brought out the very
best in him."


Villa are also moving forward in terms of infrastructure with
work on a new 13 -million-pound training ground close to
completion.

