

US and Iraqi forces have killed the most senior insurgent leader
in Iraq, deputy interior minister Hussein Ali Kamal said on
Thursday, in a major victory for the allies' security plan.


Kamal said the militant chieftain known as Abu Omar al-Baghdadi,
the head of the so-called Islamic State of Iraq, was killed in
northwestern Baghdad on Wednesday.


"His body is under the control of the interior ministry," the
junior minister told AFP. "His body has been identified."


The Islamic State of Iraq is an umbrella group of Sunni
insurgents which is dominated by Al-Qaeda in Iraq.


It has been blamed for attacks on Shiite civilians and has
claimed responsibility for some of the bloodiest assaults on
Iraqi security forces.


Separately, US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Chris Garver
said the military would hold a news conference later on Thursday
to announce a "recent success against a senior leader of Al-Qaeda
in Iraq."


According to an Iraqi security official in the northern city of
Tikrit, Baghdadi's mourning family had already begun receiving
well-wishers in his hometown of Dhuluiyah, around 75 kilometres
(40 miles) north of Baghdad.


The security official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said
37-year-old Baghdadi's real name was Mohib, that he had a
master's degree in law and was well known in the region, itself
known for its Al-Qaeda sympathies.


Kamal said Baghdadi was killed in a clash in the Ghazaliyah
neighbourhood of northwestern Baghdad, a flashpoint on one of the
city's many sectarian faultlines and a focus of recent security
operations.


His death would be the first major success of a 10-week-old joint
US and Iraqi security operation, which has seen tens of thousands
of extra troops and police flood the war-torn capital in a bid to
quell sectarian bloodshed.


The "Islamic State of Iraq" and Al-Qaeda have been blamed for
some of the bloodiest recent attacks on Shiite civilians, and
Baghdadi's umbrella group has claimed responsibility for
murdering dozens of kidnapped police.


The group also claimed responsibility for a suicide bomb attack
on Iraq's parliament that killed one MP deep inside Baghdad's
fortified Green Zone.


News of the militant leader's apparent demise comes only two days
after the Iraqi interior ministry and a Sunni tribal coalition
claimed that Al-Qaeda in Iraq's leader, Abu Ayyub al-Masri, had
been killed.


This has still not been confirmed -- and Garver was at pains to
point out that Thursday's news conference was "not about al-
Masri" -- but if it is true the Sunni Islamist insurgency in Iraq
would have lost both its top leaders.


Baghdadi's name first came to the public eye in April 2006, when
he was anointed leader of a new organisation uniting anti-US
insurgent groups by the then Al- Qaeda in Iraq leader, Abu Musab
al-Zarqawi.


According to experts on the insurgency, rising dissatisfaction
among rebel groups with Jordanian-born Zarqawi's brutal tactics
targeting civilians spurred the formation of what was then known
as the Mujahedeen Shura Council.


With Zarqawi's death in a US airstrike in June, Baghdadi (whose
name means "Omar's father from Baghdad") became the preeminent
leader of the insurgency in an effort to give it a more Iraqi
face.


Zarqawi's successor at the head of Al-Qaeda, Egyptian-born Masri,
was designated as Baghdadi's "war minister".


On October 15, the alliance renamed itself the Islamic State of
Iraq to confront de facto Shiite and Kurdish states, according to
Islamist websites.


Baghdadi's Al-Qaeda and Sunni insurgent supporters have been
blamed for a recent surge in car bombings in Baghdad targeting
the city's Shiite majority in an apparent bid to foment sectarian
violence.


Since February 14, US and Iraqi forces have been engaged in
"Operation Fardh al- Qanoon" (Imposing Law), under which a
"surge" in American troop reinforcements has flooded into violent
districts.


Thursday's announcement came as Iraq's Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki met senior international diplomats at a conference in the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el- Sheikh to discuss ways to return his
country to stability.

