

Voting got under way in Scotland Thursday, with nationalists
hoping to become the largest party in the Scottish parliament and
bring their dreams of independence move closer to reality.


The Scottish National Party (SNP) is widely tipped to wrest
control from the governing Labour Party, ending its dominance of
Scottish politics and dealing a blow to Tony Blair a week before
he is expected to announce his resignation.


Having the SNP in power in Edinburgh would also be a headache for
Britain's Scottish chancellor of the exchequer Gordon Brown, just
as he takes over as prime minister.


But SNP leader Alex Salmond, who wants a referendum on
independence in 2010, was concentrating on another Gordon
Thursday: the north-east Scotland constituency of that name where
he is hoping to be elected.


"I can't tell you who I voted for. Secrecy of the ballot," said a
smiling Salmond as he emerged from the polling station in his
home village of Strichen, 35 miles (56 kilometres) north of
Aberdeen.


"But let's put it this way: I voted for a new government for
Scotland and a new hope for the future."


Wearing a dark blue suit, light blue shirt and tie emblazoned
with small maps of Scotland filled with the country's blue and
white Saltire flag, Salmond refused to make predictions about the
election result.


But he told AFP: "The overwhelming majority of people in Scotland
thought we ran the best campaign. We ran a very positive campaign
about the future of Scotland. We won the campaign in the opinion
of the people."


Salmond's reticence came despite a YouGov poll for Thursday's
Daily Telegraph suggesting the SNP was well-placed to going into
the keenly-watched vote.


The eve-of-election survey of 1,137 Scottish voters gave the
nationalists a six- point lead over Labour in the first-past-the-
post constituency vote and a five- point lead in the proportional
regional vote.


Scotland has two voting methods to return its 129 MSPs (members
of the Scottish Parliament): majority voting for 73 single member
constituencies and a party list system to elect seven MSPs for
each of Scotland's eight regions.


The percentage ratings were SNP 37/32; Labour 31/27; Liberal
Democrats 14/10; Conservative Party 13/13; and the Green Party
and other smaller parties, which are only constesting regional
seats, on nine.


That would leave the SNP on 45 seats with Labour on 39.


Nationalists have campaigned hard on Blair's dwindling reputation
and are hoping for a "bounce" from continuing opposition to the
war in Iraq, renewing Britain's nuclear deterrent and his
government's integrity.


Blair has warned against a protest vote and said independence
would hit Scots hard in the pocket.


But what happens after the results is key: the Lib Dems, who are
likely power- brokers in a coalition government, say they will
not share power with the SNP if independence is still on the
table.


Gordon Brown, who is avowedly pro-British, said last month he
could not support a leader who favours independence for Scotland.


Salmond was diplomatic on the issue Thursday, telling AFP: "If
people are elected into office, they do their best to co-operate.
That will be my attitude.


"Hopefully, once Gordon gets over the shock, that will be his
attitude, too."


The Scottish Parliament controls policy over issues like health
and education, but London retains control over areas like
defence, foreign affairs and major economic issues.


Scotland's First Minister Jack McConnell, a Labour lawmaker,
underlined what was at stake in the elections. "It's been a very
closely fought, keenly fought election. It is a huge decision day
for Scotland," he said.

