

Chinese star Liang Wenchong celebrated a return to Korea by
grabbing the first round lead in the 600,000-dollar GS Caltex
Maekyung Open with a blistering eight-under-par 64 on Thursday.


Liang, who has not played here since 2003, snared one eagle,
eight birdies and two bogeys at Nam Nam Seoul Country Club to
lead by two shots from Australian rookie Mitchell Brown, who
fired a flawless 66.


New Zealand's Richard Lee and Korea's Yu Jong-Goo shared third
place with matching 68s, followed by Scotland's Ross Bain and
another local stalwart, Lee Gun-Hee, a further stroke back.
Singaporean number one Mardan Mamat was among those tied for
seventh place after a 70.


The 28-year-old Liang has been enjoying his best spell as a
professional this season, winning his maiden Asian Tour title at
the Clariden Leu Singapore Masters in March.


His strong start in Seoul, on the back of a fourth top-10 of the
season in Beijing last week, has put him in a good mood.


"It's been a while since I last played in Korea, so this eight-
under round is really nice," said Liang, who is ranked second on
the Asian Tour's Order of Merit.


"I putted really well and coped on the fast greens. I was driving
and hitting my irons solid all day and converted most of my putts
for birdies from inside 15 feet. I've been playing well since
last week and hopefully I can carry the form through the
weekend."


The 21-year-old Brown, who joined the professional ranks at the
end of last year, initially intended to withdraw from the
Maekyung Open after enduring a lean patch with five straight
missed cuts on the Asian Tour.


"I didn't really want to come initially. I thought about going
home to get my head sorted. However, a couple of my mates and my
dad asked me to come, so it's all good," he said.


"It's been average the past month or so. I've been pretty hard on
myself and it's good to turn it around. I'm taking a different
approach this week and I am being a bit more relaxed out there
instead of worrying about the game."


Starting on the 10th, a 50-foot putt for birdie set Brown on his
way and he capitalised on the par fives at Nam Seoul, shooting
birdies on three of them.


"The birdie on the first (10th hole) got me going early. The
course is pretty tough but the greens were rolling good. You can
hole putts out here," he said.


Defending champion Suk Jong-Yul began his campaign with a 71 to
lie in tied 16th place with among others, 2005 number one Thaworn
Wiratchant of Thailand and Taiwan veteran Lu Wen-teh.


The Maekyung Open is the 13th leg of this season's Asian Tour.

