

Journalists in Gambia bemoaned on Thursday media abuses in the
tiny west African country notorious for its harsh handling of the
critical press.


The Gambia Press Union (GPU) expressed concern at the "extremely
grave and disquieting problem ... (of) the arrests and detention
of Gambian journalists without taking them to trial."


"The majority of crimes committed against journalists and other
media professionals ... remain unpunished," said GPU in a
statement.


A leading media watchdog, the Committee to Protect Journalists
(CPJ) has ranked Gambia second in the world after Egypt when it
comes to worsening press freedom conditions in the past year.


CPJ said 11 journalists were jailed for extended periods in
Gambia last year while an independent paper was closed down.


"The African nations of the Gambia and the Democratic Republic of
Congo join Russia and Cuba among the world's worst backsliders on
press freedom," said CPJ.


Journalist Fatou Jaw Manneh is facing trial for treason while
another, Ebrima Manneh has been missing for months, and Lamin
Fatty is still awaiting trial over a story on last year's coup
attempt against President Yahya Jammeh.


Deyda Hydara, the editor of an independent daily The Point and an
AFP correspondent, was assassinated in 2004 and "the perpetrators
of this heinous crime have not yet been brought to book," said
GPU.


The International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) urged Gambian
authorities "to conduct independent investigations to bring the
perpetrators of these heinous crimes to justice"


The New York-based CPJ identified 10 countries where freedom of
the press had slipped most since 2002, with Ethiopia leading the
hall of shame that also ranked Cuba, Morocco and Thailand.


"The behaviour of all of these countries is deeply troubling,"
CPJ chief Joel Simon said in a statement accompanying the report.


Many human rights organisations consider the government of
Gambia, Africa's smallest mainland nation, wedged inside Senegal,
to be one of the most hostile towards press freedom.

