

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II left Thursday for the United States,
where she was to make her first state visit in 16 years,
Buckingham Palace said.


The six-day visit will mark the 400th anniversary of America's
first permanent English settlement at Jamestown, and the queen
will also take in a White House dinner with President George W.
Bush.


The queen and her husband, Prince Philip, were due to arrive in
Richmond, Virginia around 1900 GMT to be met by the state's
governor, Tim Kaine, and launch straight into a programme of
official engagements.


In the Virginia state capital, the queen was due to be welcomed
by a showcase of blues, jazz, bluegrass and gospel music in the
town's Capitol Square.


Richmond is about an hour's drive from the site of the original
Jamestown fort, which the queen and her husband, Prince Philip,
are to tour on Friday.


When she visited 50 years ago, the fort's site adjacent to the
settlers' original landing place on the James River had not been
discovered. A wealth of recently unearthed archaeological finds
awaits the royal couple.


A total of 104 ill-prepared men and boys set up camp along the
mile-wide river on May 14, 1607 on a swampy, mosquito-infested
swath of land, seeking safe haven from marauding Spaniards and a
route to Oriental treasures.


Instead they found famine, disease, drought and hostile natives
whose fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement,
which was also responsible for the advent of black African slaves
in North America.


Prince Philip was Friday also to inspect a replica of the Susan
Constant, the largest of three ships that brought the original
settlers, whose adventurous leader Captain John Smith now stands
in statue by the fort.


On Saturday the queen, an avid horse racing fan, will fulfill a
lifelong ambition to watch the Kentucky Derby.


On Monday they the royal couple fly to Washington and meet Bush
and his wife Laura at the White House, the ceremonial climax of
the queen's first state visit to the United States since 1991.


Before returning home late Tuesday, they are to tour NASA's
Goddard Space Flight Center outside Washington, visit the World
War II National Memorial and give a return banquet for the Bushes
at the British ambassador's residence.


The trip comes weeks after the shootings at Virginia Tech that
saw 32 students and teachers killed by student Cho Seung-Hui.


The queen will pay tribute to the victims of the massacre during
her trip to the state, but will not visit the campus.

