

World Boxing Association super featherweight champion Edwin
Valero of Venezuela Thursday beat challenger Nobuhito Honmo for a
stunning 22nd consecutive knockout victory.


It was one of three world title bouts Thursday, with WBA super
flyweight champion Nobuo Nashiro failing to defend his title but
WBC bantamweight champion Hozumi Hasegawa pounded out a victory
to end what had been a humiliating day for Japan.


Valero defeated Honmo one minute 54 seconds into the eighth round
for a technical knockout after a hard punch drew blood from close
to the Japanese challenger's right eye, forcing the referee to
stop the fight.


"I didn't care for a knockout victory. I would have been
satisfied with a decision victory. I think I showed a different
style of boxing today using my footwork. Honmo is a brave
fighter," said Valero.


The 25-year-old Valero has now won 22 out of 22 bouts, all of
them knockout victories, including a world record of 18
consecutive first-round wins.


His first-round streak ended in March last year when he needed
two rounds to pull off a technical knockout in his 19th bout. In
August 2006 he snatched the WBA title from Vicente Mosquera of
Panama.


Former title-holder Alexander Munoz of Venezuela was the villain
to Nashiro's second defence of the title as he pulled off a
unanimous decision victory.


A Belgian judge counted it 118-109 and an American judge 117-111,
while a Canadian judge scored it 117-112, all in favour of the
Venezuelan.


It was a repeat performance for the 28-year-old Munoz, who won
the title in March 2002 by beating another Japanese, Celes
Kobayashi, with a technical knockout victory.


Munoz's overall record now stands at 30 wins, including 27 KOs,
against two defeats.


Nashiro connected a left hook to stagger Munoz in the third
round, but the Venezuelan fought back with an array of left jabs
and right upper cuts and made it a lopsided affair after the
seventh round, narrowly missing a knock down.


"I was sure of the victory in the sixth round when I was able to
hit a strong right and left," said Munoz who has never lost to a
Japanese fighter in five bouts.


"Kobayashi was the strongest among them all (Japanese). Nashiro
is still too young and his skills are not enough to beat me,"
added the new champion.


Hasegawa also pounded out a unanimous decision victory over
Simpiwe Vetyeka of South Africa, with two American judges scoring
it 116-112 and the Mexican judge having it 115-113.


It was Hasegawa's fourth defence of the title he wrested from
14-time champion Veeraphol Nakhonluang of Thailand in April 2005,
stretching his record to 22 wins, including seven KOs, against
two defeats.

