

German cycling team T-Mobile suspended two of their top doctors
on Thursday over allegations they supplied cycling greats Jan
Ullrich and Bjarne Riis with banned drug EPO during the 1996 Tour
de France.


The allegations were made by Jef d'Hont, who worked for
T-Mobile's predecessor Telekom from 1992 to 1996, claiming
doctors Lothar Heinrich and Andreas Schmid administered the
banned blood booster during the race which was won by Danish
rider Riis.


The claims led to T-Mobile launching an independent inquiry and
the Sueddeutsche Zeitung reported on Thursday that the pair, who
run the team's drug-testing centre in the western German city of
Freiburg, face an investigation by local prosecutors.


To make matters worse, Heidelberg doping expert Werner Franke, a
recognised expert in the battle against doping, has also brought
a medical complaint against the pair.


"After discussion with Doctors Heinrich and Schmid, we have
mutually agreed to discontinue their medical services during the
course of these inquiries so that no further distraction is
created for our athletes," said T-Mobile boss Bob Stapleton.


"And we hope that the independent experts can clear the
allegations, so that the co-operation can be continued.


"We will continue our firm zero tolerance anti-doping policy and
our independent blood and hemoglobin mass testing."


Stapleton added T-Mobile would look at alternatives to the
Freiburg testing centre, should the need arise.


The Freiburg-based doctors were accused in Belgian d'Hont's book,
which was published in Belgium this week, and details his time as
a masseur for Telekom when he alleges the doctors supplied the
team with EPO, or erythropoietin.


Stapleton initially suggested Heinrich and Schmid were
considering taking legal action against d'Hont, but neither have
made such a move.


Ullrich, who won the Tour de France in 1997, was thrown out of
last year's Tour over doping allegations and was then sacked by
T-Mobile. He announced his retirement in February.

