

Dubai has won the right to host the Rugby World Cup Sevens in
2009 and the tournament will be the first to incorporate a
women's competition, the International Rugby Board (IRB)
announced on Thursday.


The Gulf state beat off stiff competition from Australia as well
as bids from the Netherlands, Russia and the United States to
secure the right to host the fifth Rugby World Cup Sevens. Dubai
follows in the footsteps of Hong Kong (2005 and 1997), Argentina
(2001) and Scotland (1993).


Dubai, which successfully hosted the world under-19 championships
last year, secured the backing of 12 of the 24 members of the IRB
council in the first round of voting, one short of the overall
majority required.


The Emirate then emerged victorious 14-10 in a run-off against
Australia, who had secured eight votes in the first round.


IRB Chairman Syd Millar voiced confidence that Dubai would stage
a "spectacular" tournament.


"Dubai has a proven track record of staging major international
events and has both the infrastructure and ability to stage a
tournament of this scale," he said.


"There is a strong rugby community within the city and the annual
Dubai Sevens has grown to become one of the most popular,
colourful and well attended on the world sevens series,
attracting capacity crowds."


David Skidmore, the chairman of the Arabian Gulf Rugby Football
Union and leader of Dubai's bid, said Dubai would be aiming to
match the success of the 2005 event in Hong Kong.


"We are confident that we will deliver a tremendously successful
tournament. Dubai has a strong history of hosting successful and
well attended sevens tournaments and I am sure that everyone in
the city will be extremely excited with today's news."


Millar underlined that Hong Kong 2005 had set a new benchmark for
the event.


"Hong Kong 2005 was an outstanding success," he said. "A capacity
crowd of 120,000 fans attended the three competition days, while
the event was broadcast to over 450 million homes, breaking all
previous tournament records. Over 10 million hits were recorded
on the tournament's website and we anticipate 2009 being even
more successful."


The women's tournament in Dubai will be a 16-team event and run
alongside the 24-team men's competition in an initiative that the
IRB hopes will increase the chances of rugby sevens winning a
place at the Olympic Games in the future.

