

Bangladesh Nobel Peace Prize winner and micro-credit pioneer
Muhammad Yunus announced Thursday he had abandoned a dream to
form a new party to breathe new life into the country's embattled
democracy.


"I decided to enter into politics because of your support," Yunus
said in an open letter. "Now ... I am informing you that I am not
going to form any political party," he said.


"I had a plan ... but I came to understand that it is not
possible and so accepting this reality I decided not to go
forward," he added.


Yunus and his Grameen Bank, which specialises in lifting people
out of extreme poverty by giving small loans to the very poor,
were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last October.


His decision to enter politics followed a political crisis in
January that led to the cancellation of elections and a state of
emergency under a military- backed interim government.


But Yunus said he had no alternative but to drop his plans after
he failed to find backers.


"People gave me inspiration to enter politics (but) when I
contacted them I did not get much response and they were not
interested in joining the party. Others would not leave their
existing political party," he said in a statement.


Yunus in February vowed that his "Citizen Power" party would
offer an alternative to the two main political parties which have
dominated Bangladesh's notoriously corrupt and dysfunctional
politics for more than 30 years.


Critics of the two parties -- the Bangladesh Nationalist Party
(BNP) and the Awami League -- say their confrontational approach
and failure to tackle corruption has damaged democracy and led to
January's crisis.


But many doubted whether Yunus would succeed in his plan and
questioned whether he had over-estimated his popularity in rural
areas, where his bank's high interest rates were disliked.


They also pointed to the difficulty of breaking the Awami League
and BNP's stranglehold on power.


The two party leaders -- Khaleda Zia of the BNP and Sheikh Hasina
Wajed of the Awami League -- are members of rival political
dynasties and have alternated in government since democracy was
reinstated in 1991.


Yunus had said he wanted to move politics away from the
"destructive activities of the past."


For years Bangladeshi politics has been dominated by crippling
national strikes, street protests and parliamentary boycotts by
whichever party was in opposition.


"We have an age-old tradition of confrontation in politics. My
politics will be the politics of unity and peace to establish
honesty in politics and to change the fate of the nation," he
said in February.


"These politics will be non-communal, secular, democratic and
free of corruption."


Ataur Rahman, a professor of political science at Dhaka
university, said Yunus' decision was not unexpected.


"He is a social leader, rather than a political leader, and
Bangladesh has not yet reached the stage where there is the right
atmosphere for creative people like Yunus to be successful," he
said.


Bangladesh's interim government has said it would hold
rescheduled elections before the end of 2008 after carrying out
reforms to put democracy back on track.


As part of its anti-corruption drive it has detained scores of
high-profile figures, including former ministers with links to
both parties. Trials are due to start next week.

