

Zimbabwean media groups Wednesday bemoaned continued attacks on
journalists by security forces and called on the government to
scrap its tough media laws.


"The intimidation, harassment and unlawful arrests, detention and
torture of journalists going about their professional duties
continue unabated," the Media Alliance of Zimbabwe said in a
statement to mark World Press Freedom Day.


The body said that two Zimbabwean journalists had recently been
assaulted by the security services, including the chief reporter
of The Zimbabwean newspaper who is now facing charges of
practising journalism without accreditation.


The media alliance is a coalition of media bodies including the
Zimbabwe Union of Journalists, Media Monitoring Projects, the
Media Institute of Southern Africa and the Zimbabwe National
Editors' Forum.


The media bodies also deplored the threat against Bill Saidi,
deputy editor of the privately-owned Standard newspaper who
received an envelope in January containing a bullet and a message
warning him to "watch your step."


They called on President Robert Mugabe's government to scrap the
Access to Information and Protection of of Privacy Act (AIPPA).


"As we mark this day, hundreds of journalists have been thrown
into the streets following the closure of The Daily News, Daily
News on Sunday, The Weekly Times and The Tribune under the
AIPPA," the media bodies said.


"We, therefore, call upon the government to honour and respect
its pledges to the African Commission on Human and People's
Rights and repeal AIPPA, the Public Order and Security Act and
the Broadcasting Services Act to facilitate the establishment of
more alternative sources of information."


Following the passing of AIPPA, several foreign correspondents
have been thrown out of the country and journalists from the
independent press arrested and detained.


Under the new law, journalists can only practise after getting
accreditation from a government-apppointed commission.


Failure to get accredited carries a jail sentence of up to two
years, but so far there has been no conviction.

