

Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett on Thursday pledged
another 200 million dollars for Iraq's reconstruction, at an
international conference in Egypt.


"This brings our total humanitarian and reconstruction support
for Iraq's reconstruction to 744 million pounds or 1.5 billion
dollars," she said, announcing the extra 100 million pounds.


"Our work with the Iraqi government building their capacity and
unlocking resources already available in Iraq's budget, continues
to be a British priority," Beckett said.


Beckett joined Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and President
Jalal Talabani at the launch of the International Compact with
Iraq (ICI) in the Red Sea resort of Sharm el-Sheikh.


The ICI is an initiative offering a framework aimed at achieving
stability and prosperity within five years.


"The reforms and policies described in the Compact are
challenging. Their implementation can play a key part in helping
the Iraqi government deliver essential improvements in security
and services," said Beckett.


But "security in Iraq will not improve until all sides reject
violence. All sides must take part in national reconciliation.
And all sides must help build a truly inclusive and effective
national unity government," she said.


Beckett stressed the role of Iraq's neighbours in the
stabilisation process.


"Strong Iraqi leadership needs to be underpinned by constructive
engagement  by its neighbours. Iraq's regional partners can help
reduce the violence in Iraq and encourage political
reconciliation," she said.


A Compact Secretariat is to be set up in Baghdad to monitor the
progress of the commitments made in Sharm el-Sheikh, both by the
Iraqi government and the international community, she said.


Beckett will also attend a so-called "Expanded Neighbours
Meeting" on Friday along with Bahrain, Egypt, the Arab League,
the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, the Group of Eight
industrialised nations, the permanent members of the UN Security
Council and representatives of the European Union.


Senior diplomats at the international conference hope to make a
push to solve problems that have plagued Iraq since it was
invaded by US and British coalition forces in 2003.


Britain has about 7,100 soldiers in Iraq, most of whom are in the
southern city of Basra and surrounding areas, though the
government has pledged to withdraw about 1,600 this year.

