

Voters went to the polls Thursday in local and regional elections
in England, Scotland and Wales, in what is being seen as a key
test for outgoing Prime Minister Tony Blair's New Labour party.


Attention was focused on Scotland, where the Scottish National
Party (SNP) has promised a referendum on independence if it comes
out on top, triggering warnings of a break-up of the United
Kingdom.


The ballots come as Blair prepares to hand over power after 10
years, almost certainly to his erstwhile rival, dour finance
minister Gordon Brown.


Some 39 million people are entitled to vote in what some in the
British media are calling "super Thursday."


In England, around 10,500 seats are up for grabs in 312 local
authorities; in Wales, voters are choosing a new 60-seat Welsh
Assembly; while in Scotland, they are voting for the 129-member
Scottish Parliament.


Analysts say Labour could lose between 600 and 700 seats, while
the SNP could grab the lion's share in the devolved Scottish
parliament.


The Conservatives are trying to secure an electoral bridgehead
for their eventual return to power at Westminster, which they
lost in 1997 to New Labour.


The centre-right party has gradually overtaken Labour in opinion
polls since reform-minded David Cameron became their leader 18
months ago, vowing to transform the Tories into a centrist and
electable force.


According to London School of Economics analyst Tony Travers,
Labour risks losing its activist base in southern England the way
that the Conservatives lost theirs in much of the urban north in
the 1980s and 1990s.


"Once you've lost this power base, it's very difficult to win it
back again," he said.


For Scotland, a new poll Thursday gave the SNP a clear five-point
lead in the race for the Scottish Parliament. The YouGov survey,
published in the Daily Telegraph, gave the Nationalists 32
percent, against 27 percent for Labour.


Labour's prospects are better in Wales, where opinion polls and
council by- election evidence suggest that support for the Plaid
Cymru nationalists may have peaked.


While local polls are being watched with interest on the ground,
in London all eyes are on next week, when Blair is expected to
set out his departure plans.


The New Labour leader, who celebrated his 10th anniversary in
power on Wednesday, had originally planned to serve a full third
term after the 2005 general election , which could have taken him
up to 2010.


But he was forced to agree to stand down early after a "coup"
last year widely believed to have been organized by supporters of
Brown, who has reportedly fumed for years that Blair reneged on a
deal to hand power to him.


Blair used his anniversary to list his achievements in office,
including giving greater autonomy to Scotland and Wales through
regional assemblies in Edinburgh and Cardiff.


At the same time, he urged Scottish voters not to be enticed by
the SNP, who he accuses of seeking to break up the United
Kingdom.


"I hope that people vote for England staying together and not for
separation tomorrow," he said Wednesday.

