

British American Tobacco posted a near 10.0-percent rise in
first-quarter profit thanks to cost savings and an "excellent"
performance by its operations in emerging markets, the group said
on Thursday.


The data lifted the share price of BAT, the world's second-
biggest cigarette maker, to a record high in London trade,
dealers said.


BAT, the maker of Dunhill, Kent and Lucky Strike cigarettes, said
net profit climbed to 495 million pounds (725 million euros, 986
million dollars) in the first three months of 2007 compared with
the same period a year earlier.


Group revenue dropped 3.0 percent to 2.232 billion pounds, but
cost savings meant BAT posted a profits rise.


"The first quarter has been somewhat flattered by excellent
performances in Brazil and South Africa," BAT chairman Jan du
Plessis said in comments accompanying the earnings release.


However BAT cautioned that the performance was unlikely to be
repeated during subsequent quarters this year.


The global tobacco industry is undergoing a shake-up following
several takeover approches and mergers.


Britain's Imperial Tobacco has made a 12-billion-euro bid (16.4
billion dollars) for Franco-Spanish cigarette maker Altadis and
is deciding whether to hike its offer.


And last month, Japan Tobacco Inc completed its 2.25-trillion-yen
(19.0 billion dollars) acquisition of British rival Gallaher
Group.


But analysts at broker JP Morgan said that BAT was unlikely to
participate in further European consolidation.


"We see the first-quarter results as evidence that BAT's
portfolio, with its high exposure to emerging markets and
improving mix, is already attractive."


Investors cheered BAT's earnings news, sending its share price to
a record high of 1,620 pence.


In late Thursday trading, BAT stood 0.57-percent higher at 1,579
pence on London's FTSE 100. The capital's leading share index was
showing a gain of 0.48 percent at 6,515.40 points.


Tobacco groups are meanwhile gearing up for the start of
England's smoking ban on July 1. Wales and Northern Ireland saw
the introduction of bans on lighting up in enclosed public spaces
last month.


Smoking was banned in Scottish cafes, pubs, restaurants and work
places in March last year.

