

A Malaysian Hindu man forcibly separated from his Muslim wife by
Islamic authorities because they are of different religions was
Thursday granted custody of their children in a milestone case.


The children will be raised as Hindus in central Selangor state
despite having one Muslim parent -- which lawyers said was
unprecedented in mainly Muslim Malaysia.


Selangor Islamic authorities last month forcibly separated ethnic
Indian P. Marimuthu from his ethnic Indian Muslim wife of 21
years, Raimah Bibi Noordin and six of their seven children.


During a high court hearing west of Kuala Lumpur, Raimah, 39,
clad in traditional Malay floor-length attire with a Muslim
headscarf, told the judge she was voluntarily giving up custody
of her children.


"I agree to hand over the custody of my children to my husband to
be raised as Hindus," Raimah said, before she broke down in
tears.


Under Malaysian law, a non-Muslim must convert to Islam in order
to marry a Muslim, and children born to Muslims must be raised as
followers of that religion.


Government legal advisor Zauyah Be Loth Khan said Selangor's
Islamic Affairs Department did not object to the children being
raised as Hindus.


"She is still entitled to visiting rights at any time," Zauyah
told reporters.


"It sets a new precedent," said Marimuthu's lawyer Karpal Singh,
also a lawmaker with the opposition Democratic Action Party
(DAP).


Marimuthu, 43, applied for custody of the children after they
were placed with Raimah in an ethnic Malay Muslim village.


Islamic authorities said they separated the couple after they
recently found out she was a Muslim.


"I have had discussions with my husband ... with regard to the
predicament facing the both of us, and I hereby state that I was
born a Muslim and I wish to continue professing the Islamic
faith," Raimah said in an affidavit to the court.


Marimuthu has said that Raimah, an ethnic Indian, was adopted by
an Indian Muslim family but was a practising Hindu.


They were married 21 years ago according to Hindu rites and
raised their seven children, aged 14 to 4, as Hindus, he said.


Raimah's case comes amid growing sensitivities over the rights of
non-Muslims in Malaysia.


Rights groups have condemned the actions of the Islamic
authorities, saying freedom of religious practice is guaranteed
in Malaysia's constitution.


"Relationships should not be broken up by religion, which is
supposed to foster family love and unity," said DAP parliamentary
opposition leader Lim Kit Siang.

