

Media in southern Africa suffered "hard knocks" and had to defend
press freedom in courts at an increasing rate, a new review of
media freedom published by a regional media watchdog said
Thursday.


The Media Institute of Southern Africa (MISA) said in its annual
monitoring publication released on World Press Freedom Day that a
"steady increase in criminal and civil defamation suits created
an environment where self- preservation through self-censorship
has become common practice."


"2006 has been a year of hard knocks for the media in the SADC
(Southern African Development Community) countries," said MISA
researcher Zoe Titus.


"Whilst numerous victories were recorded with respect to legal
judgments like in South Africa, these came at great cost to media
institutions and individuals," he said.


"We issued fewer alerts last year for the 11 SADC countries we
monitor, but Zimbabwe remains the biggest worry," Titus told AFP
at the MISA headquarters in Windhoek.


"What happens there with regard to media freedom and democracy
requires a level of solidarity by all journalists in the region,"
he added.


Media rights groups in Zimbabwe issued a statement on Wednesday,
bemoaning continued attacks on journalists by security forces and
called on the government to scrap tough media laws.


They said two Zimbabwean journalists had recently been assaulted
by the security services, including the chief reporter of The
Zimbabwean newspaper who is now facing charges of practising
journalism without accreditation.


MISA noted an overall decrease in conventional media freedom
violations such as physical attacks, arrests and detentions and
outright attempts to censor media workers.


The media watchdog issued 144 alerts about press freedom
violations in 11 SADC countries for 2006, a decrease of 7.6
percent from the previous year, when 155 alerts were issued.


The majority of criminal defamation cases in the region were
registered in Angola, Lesotho, Malawi, Swaziland, Zambia and
Zimbabwe.

