

German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, whose country
holds the rotating EU and G8 presidencies, embarked Thursday on a
six-day Middle East tour to take part in a conference on Iraqi
security and hold talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders.


The trip, Steinmeier's seventh to the region since taking office
in November 2005, will also take in Saudi Arabia for a meeting of
the European Union and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).


Steinmeier will start the trip in the Egyptian resort of Sharm
el-Sheikh for a conference bringing together the foreign
ministers of Iraq's neighbours and major world powers. He will
attend as a representative both of the EU and the Group of Eight
club of rich nations.


"It is clear that Iraq can only be stabilised with the aid of the
neighbouring states and the international community," his
spokesman Martin Jaeger told reporters Wednesday, adding that the
expectations for the conference should remain realistic.


Steinmeier will also hold informal talks with members of the
international quartet for Middle East peace, grouping the EU, the
United States, the United Nations and Russia, as well as key Arab
partners, on the sidelines of the meeting, Jaeger said.


Germany has made reviving peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians via the Quartet one of its top foreign policy
priorities under its six-month EU presidency.


Steinmeier is to travel Friday to the Palestinian territories for
talks with president Mahmud Abbas and continue on to Israel
Saturday for a meeting with embattled Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
to encourage the "positive and constructive efforts" in the peace
process, Jaeger said.


"We are aware that we are beginning the trip under difficult
circumstances," he added, referring to calls for Olmert to resign
over a damning internal report on last summer's Lebanon war.


Steinmeier will travel to Riyadh Monday for talks with his Saudi
counterpart Saud al-Faisal before wrapping up the trip there
Tuesday at the conference of the 27-member EU and the GCC,
grouping Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.


The conference will focus on regional security, energy and work
toward finalising a free-trade agreement.

