

World crude prices rose Thursday as unrest escalated in Nigeria,
Africa's biggest oil producer, traders said.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
climbed 59 cents to 66.84 dollars per barrel in electronic
trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, rose 35 cents to 64.03 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official open of the US market.


Crude prices had dropped on Wednesday, despite a decline in US
gasoline or petrol reserves, as traders bet on a build-up in
stocks following improvements in refining output.


Gasoline stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-demand holiday
driving season in the United States, which starts at the end of
May.


But on Thursday the market's attention was more geared to
Nigeria, after news that armed men had overnight abducted at
least 12 foreigners in the country's south during the latest
spate of violence to hit the region.


"Crude futures were higher (on Thursday), underpinned by fresh
concerns about violence in Nigeria," Sucden analyst Michael
Davies said in London.


The latest attacks, for which no group has claimed
responsibility, follow a kidnapping Tuesday in which six
expatriates were seized from a floating oil vessel by Nigeria's
most high profile armed group, MEND.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks to pipelines.


Meanwhile regarding the supply situation in the United States,
the world's biggest consumer of energy, the US Department of
Energy (DoE) said Wednesday that its gasoline reserves had fallen
by 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million last week.


Despite a smaller-than-expected drop, it was the 12th weekly
decline in a row for gasoline stocks, which have fallen by 34.1
million barrels since the start of February.


The DoE meanwhile added that American refineries ratcheted up
their gasoline production last week by a half point from the
prior week, to 88.3 percent.


"There is an indication that refinery utilisation (rates) in the
US are picking up and that would mean that gasoline supplies get
relieved somewhat," said Victor Shum, an analyst with energy
consultancy Purvin and Gertz.

