

Hong Kong leader Donald Tsang pledged Thursday to set out
concrete proposals for the democratisation of the city's
political system in a bid to end the thorny issue within his new
term.


Tsang, who was handed a second term in office in March, said he
hoped to release a green paper around summer this year on how to
achieve the goal of allowing the citizens to elect their leader
and the entire legislature.


"I have promised that I would, within my term, resolve the issue
of the two direct elections ... That's my historical mission as a
chief executive," he told lawmakers during a regular question-
and-answer session.


"This issue has been with us for two decades. I think we should
put a full stop to this issue," he said. "I hope that we can
together find its solution to this issue as soon as possible."


Hong Kong became a territory of China when Britain ceded control
in 1997. The post-colonial Basic Law constitution stipulates that
leaders must eventually be elected by direct popular vote.


Leaders are currently selected by a panel of pro-Beijing elites
and only half of the 60-member legislature are directly voted.


However, the Basic Law doesn't specify when such change should
take place. The city's democrats have been calling for the
government to lay out a timetable for a full democracy.


Hong Kong's political scene has been dominated by a feud between
those who back swift reforms and those who support the
government's wait-and-see approach.


Tsang, who will formally begin his second term in July, said he
hoped more detailed proposals on the issue could be established
within his five-year term.


Although he would not pinpoint exactly when the city will see
full democracy, he said the public would be given an option to
discuss whether universal suffrage by 2012, the end of his new
term, could be a possibility.


Tsang said the green paper will be issued for public consultation
around summer time before the government draws a conclusion of
the discussions by the end of the year.


"I will be able to present options which have been widely
discussed and which can take us to the ultimate goal," by then he
hoped a timetable and a roadmap could be decided, he said.


"I do not want to drag my feet," he added.

