

The Taliban must still decide what to do with a French hostage
and his three Afghan companions abducted in Afghanistan a month
ago, the militia's military leader in the south of the country
said on Thursday.


French aid worker Celine Cordelier was freed by the
fundamentalist group in the southern province of Kandahar on
Saturday and returned to France on Sunday.


She had been captured on April 3 in the southwestern province of
Nimroz with another French volunteer, Eric Damfreville, and the
three Afghans.


"The French were kidnapped because all foreigners linked with the
US-led coalition will be hit," Mullah Dadullah told the daily
newspaper Corriere della Sera.


"Our guideline is that one of our hostages (will be freed) in
exchange for three (Talibans) in the hands of the government" of
President Hamid Karzai, he said.


"Karzai is ready to apply this principle secretly but we want it
to be known publicly," he added.


Dadullah said that Cordelier had been released "for humanitarian
reasons".


"We have not decided the fate of the Frenchman and his Afghan
companions," the military leader told the Corriere in a telephone
interview, speaking the local Pashtun language.


French aid agency Terre d'Enfance (A World For Our Children) on
Wednesday appealed to the group in Afghanistan holding aid worker
Damfreville and the three Afghan colleagues to show mercy.


Dadullah had held Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo for
two weeks before he was freed after the Afghan government
released five Talibans.


Mastrogiacomo, who was kidnapped March 4 with his Afghan driver
and interpreter, said he had witnessed the beheading of the
driver. The interpreter was also killed.


The swap was condemned by NATO countries that sent troops to
Afghanistan as part of the NATO-led International Security
Assistance Forces (ISAF).


The Taliban sheltered Al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden and were
ousted by US-led forces in 2001 after the September 11 attacks in
the United States but have since regrouped to lead a bloody
insurgency.


ISAF has about 37,000 troops in Afghanistan that are supporting
Karzai's government. Separately, there are also around 11,000 US-
led troops in Afghanistan.

