

Japan's Trade Minister Akira Amari and his southeast Asian
counterparts will attempt to agree the framework of a free trade
deal when they meet in Brunei on Friday, a Japanese diplomatic
source said.


Amari will meet with ministers from the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations (ASEAN) in a bid to iron out remaining differences.


"There is no signing but we sincerely hope we can have an
agreement in principle," said the source, who asked not to be
named.


"We want to have a common understanding on the modality for
tariff reduction on trade in goods, but even at this moment I
cannot say we are 100 percent sure," he told AFP by telephone
from the Brunei capital Bandar Seri Begawan.


"We are still negotiating on the table."


Japanese and ASEAN working-level officials who met in Tokyo last
month for the seventh round of their talks on a so-called
comprehensive economic partnership agreement (EPA) said they
hoped to strike an accord in Brunei on merchandise trade.


Such a free trade pact, which is expected to eventually include
services and investment cooperation, would form the core of the
EPA which would encompass broader economic ties.


But the source said that senior officials who had been meeting in
Brunei since Tuesday ahead of Friday's ministerial gathering had
not been able to reach an agreement.


"Honestly speaking, there is some uncertainty," he said.


Japan has already signed free trade agreements with four ASEAN
members -- Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines --
but wants an accord that will cover all 10 ASEAN members.


Indonesia and Brunei had expressed agreement "in principle" on a
free trade deal with Japan, but at least one less developed ASEAN
member had expressed some concern, the source said.


"They are a bit worried about our exports," he said, mentioning
auto parts.


Japan and ASEAN agreed to liberalise more than 90 percent of
merchandise trade in value within 10 years after an EPA took
effect.


Tokyo has said it planned to eliminate tariffs on some 92 percent
of its imports from ASEAN bloc in the 10-year period, while ASEAN
aimed to remove tariffs on more than 90 percent of its imports
from Japan.


ASEAN's other members are Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam.

