

Armed men abducted at least 18 foreigners in three separate
incidents overnight to Thursday in southern Nigeria in the latest
spate of violence to hit Africa's biggest oil producer.


The attacks followed another kidnapping Tuesday in which six
expatriates were seized from a floating oil vessel.


On Wednesday night an unemployed Dutch oil worker was kidnapped
from a bar in the southern town of Warri in the oil-rich Delta
state.


Then early Thursday three Korean executives and eight Filipino
workers were seized from a construction site in Rivers state
after a gunfight.


In a third incident, gunmen kidnapped six foreigners working on a
floating storage vessel operated by ENI of Italy and Single Buoy
Moorings, the Mystras, anchored 90 kilometers (55 miles) off the
Rivers coast, only to announce hours later that they had released
them.


Industry sources said the Mystras hostages included a Briton, two
Croatians, one Australian, a Romanian and a Pole.


An official with Single Buoy Moorings said the attack had forced
a production shutdown resulting in the loss of "between 40,000
and 50,000 barrels per day" of oil on the Okono field where the
vessel was moored.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), claimed responsibility
for the Mystras attack and said it had released the six hostages.


"They have all been released now and are heading to Port
Harcourt," a spokesman for the group said in an email sent to
AFP.


"The vessel was meant to have been destroyed. We have no need for
more hostages just yet," he added.


MEND, which seized six foreign workers in another offshore raid
on Tuesday, however declined responsibility for the attack in
which the Korean Daewoo Group executives and Filipinos workers
were grabbed.


That attack happened around 1:00 am (0000 GMT) at the
construction site of the Afam 6 power plant near Rivers state
capital Port Harcourt.


One industry source said the attack appeared to have been carried
out with inside knowledge, since Daewoo's kidnapped managing
director, 52-year-old Chung Tae-Young, had just arrived in the
area on a business trip.


"Two minibuses full of armed guys came and shot up the nearest
roadblock, then they used dynamite on the Afam 6 gate and
perimeter fence," the source, who asked not to be named, told
AFP.


He said the attackers also shot up the nearby home of a military
commander, but there was no immediate confirmation of that
attack.


A local resident, also requesting anonymity, said one soldier and
one local resident had been killed in the assault.


The military and the security men who guard the site normally
remove their uniforms and hide their weapons at night in order to
avoid risking their lives in such attacks, the resident said.


A Nigerian driver kidnapped along with the 11 at the construction
site and later released was quoted by the South Korean foreign
ministry as saying the Korean workers were not harmed by their
captors.


"We have decided to temporarily close down the construction site
and have evacuated 195 personnel including 135 Daewoo employees
and 60 Filipino workers," said Lee Hong-Jae, head of Daewoo's
foreign business operations.


He said the people have been taken to a safe area and are waiting
further developments.


Rich in oil reserves, the Niger Delta area has been at the centre
of a long confrontation between the government, militants who
claim to be fighting for a larger share of the country's oil
resources for local people and a plethora of armed gangs.


MEND is the best-organised and best-equipped of the militant
groups in the region, industry and security sources say.


The attack overnight on the Mystras was the second time
foreigners have been seized from the vessel.


Last November seven foreign workers were taken from it and one of
them, a Briton, was subsequently killed by Nigerian soldiers
during a botched rescue attempt.

