

Hundreds of Afghans chanted "Death to America" in a new protest
Thursday in western Afghanistan, where a weekend US-led operation
against the Taliban is said to have killed about 50 civilians.


The protest in Shindand district in the western province of Herat
began when Afghan soldiers, deployed to the tense area following
the operation, shot and wounded two men on a motorbike who had
ignored warnings to stop, officials said.


"We don't want US forces to search our houses and bomb us
anymore," one of the demonstrators, Qamar Gul, told AFP by
telephone. "Why has the ANA (Afghan National Army) wounded two of
our people?"


"We ask the government to pay more attention to Shindand
district," he said.


Chants of "Death to America" and "Death to Karzai" -- referring
to Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai -- could be heard in the
background.


UN and Afghan investigations into the weekend's fighting in
Shindand have found between 42 and 51 civilians were killed.


The deaths have been widely condemned and tensions are high in
the area, which lies about 120 kilometres (74 miles) south of
Herat city.


The coalition says it is not aware of civilian deaths. It has
said 136 Taliban were killed in ground fighting and bombings on
Friday and Sunday in Shindand's Zerkoh Valley.


"A lot of Afghan army vehicles have moved into the area to secure
it," said the Herat governor's spokeswoman, Farzana Ahmadi.


The soldiers may have thought the men they wounded were planning
an attack, she said.


"Hundreds of people, including students of schools and madrassas,
took part in the protest," said the army commander for western
Afghanistan, General Abdul Wahab Walizada.


"They thought the ANA is there to search their houses and arrest
them."


The Shindand civilian toll is one of the highest in a series of
incidents in which civilians have been killed in military action,
notably after bombings by the US-led coalition or the separate
NATO-led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


Karzai called top military and diplomatic officials to his palace
on Wednesday to warn "the patience of the Afghan people is
wearing thin with the continued killing of innocent civilians."


"Civilian deaths and arbitrary decisions to search people's
houses have reached an unacceptable level and Afghans cannot put
up with it any longer," he said in a statement released after the
meeting.


The talks focused on "establishing mechanisms for avoiding
civilian casualties during anti-terrorist operations, ensuring
greater coordination between the Afghan and NATO/Coalition
forces, and forbidding unauthorised house searches."


"There is absolutely room for additional coordination," ISAF
spokeswoman Maria Carl said Thursday.

