

The EU's administration remains disconnected from europe's
citizens with some civil servants believing it is enough just for
them to avoid unlawful behaviour, the European ombudsman reported
Thursday.


Ombudsman Nikiforos Diamandouros, in his annual report, said that
complaints received from EU citizens, companies, NGOs and
associations in 2006 remained at high levels, a total of 3,830 in
all.


"Part of the problem seems to be that the idea that the
principles of good administration require more of institutions
and civil servants than merely avoiding unlawful behaviour is not
yet fully understood," the report said.


A quarter of the enquiries concerned a lack of transparency in
the EU administration, including refusal of information, the
Ombudsman said in his report to the European Parliament.


Most (66 percent) concerned the European Commission, the EU's
executive arm.


There were also a significant number of complaints about abuse of
power (19 percent), discrimination (nine percent) and negligence
(eight percent).


"The number of complaints thus remains close to the record-high
levels reached in the two previous years," Diamandouros said.


The ombudsman does not wield binding powers but can make
recommendations to European institutions on how to amicably
resolve maladministration problems.


He regretted the emergence last year of a "lower rate of
acceptance and implementation" of his recommendations.


"This development should be cause for concern for everyone who
wants better relations between the European Union and its
citizens," he said in his report.


"I am not sure that the citizen can easily reconcile the
statements often made by the institutions that they want to get
closer to the citizen," when the ombudsman's advice on how to
improve relations is ignored, he added.


Spain produced the greatest number of complaints, 20 percent of
the total received, followed by Germany and France. However
relative to population size most complaints came from EU minnows
Luxembourg, Malta and Cyprus.


These ran the gamut from misleading information on air passenger
rights to a German citizen's gripe about personal data
protection.


Another concerned the lack of a German-language version of some
EU websites.

