

Manchester City coach Stuart Pearce said the violent bust-up in
training between Joey Barton and Ousmane Dabo would not affect
preparations for Saturday's derby game against Manchester United.


Barton clashed with Dabo during a training ground incident on
Tuesday, leaving the Frenchman "disfigured" and in need of
medical treatment to his face for several cuts and bruises, as
well as a suspected detached retina.


Barton was suspended by his club for the rest of the season
following the fracas, which had led to intense speculation that
the midfielder will be axed by Pearce in the summer.


The City boss refused to discuss the specifics of the scrap,
confirming the matter is now subject to an internal disciplinary
hearing which will be held the week after the season ends.


But he does not believe there will be any lingering problem that
will affect City's performance this weekend.


"I am sure the rest of the players will react very
professionally," said Pearce.


"There will be no negative response. The way the squad have
handled everything has been a credit to themselves. I am sure
they are galvanised by it."


Dabo suggested he is considering taking legal action against
Barton over the assault, which came after the pair exchanged
fierce challenges.


Such a move could have serious consequences for the England
midfielder, who has attracted unwanted publicity on a regular
basis down the years and is currently thought to be out of the
country.


Among the most unsavoury incidents were Barton stubbing a cigar
out in the eye of team-mate Jamie Tandy during a players'
Christmas party and also attacking a schoolboy Everton fan in a
Thailand bar.


"The matter is now the subject of an internal disciplinary
hearing," said Pearce.


"The board will be involved, as will myself, and we will deal
with it after the season ends."


Dabo was quoted in The Times newspaper as saying he was upset by
the cowardice shown by Barton, who has one England cap, having
played against Spain at Old Trafford in February.


"The fact that I look like the Elephant Man and will not be able
to play agains this season is bad enough but what I find most
shocking is that he (Barton) struck me first from behind and then
repeatedly when I was down on the ground," Dabo said.


"He is a coward and his actions are despicable and that is why I
am in serious discussions with my lawyers to see what actions I
can take."


Meanwhile, players' union chief Gordon Taylor insisted his
organisation had made efforts to contact Dabo after the former
France international claimed otherwise in The Sun tabloid.


"We've been in touch with Manchester City and have been trying to
make contact with both players," Taylor said.


"Joey Barton has gone away, the club have said they are having an
investigation and as regards Dabo, (PFA official) Richard Jobson
is looking to make contact with him because he deals with his
brother (Moussa, who plays for Oldham) on a regular basis.


"So that is a bit of an odd response. Richard is a really genuine
lad and I know if he tells me he has been trying to make contact
then he has.


"It's a strange comment because (Dabo) should know his younger
brother has been helped considerably by the PFA."

