

Across Scotland, voters were filing into village halls and
schools Thursday, clutching their voting slips for what is being
seen as one of the country's keenest-fought elections.


But for all the nationalist talk of a referendum on an
independent Scotland and a protest vote against British Prime
Minister Tony Blair and his governing Labour Party, there seemed
to be more pressing issues for the people of Ellon voting in the
Scottish parliamentary elections.


"Pensions," said George Gerrard, a 79-year-old former council
worker as he emerged from the Auchterellon Primary School polling
station in the northeastern Scottish town when asked what was the
most important issue for him.


"I'm much worse off now than I was 10 years ago. The pensions
have never kept up with the cost of living."


Speaking minutes after Scottish National Party (SNP) leader Alex
Salmond visited the school on a whistlestop tour of the Gordon
constituency he hopes to win, Gerrard said independence made no
difference to how he voted.


Meanwhile, Doris Mellis, an 84-year-old retired nurse, was having
difficulties getting her dog Simba, a miniature Shetland Collie,
down the wheelchair ramp.


Her other concern, she said, was council tax, the property tax
that covers among other things services like refuse collection,
education, social services and the upkeep of roads.


"I'm a pensioner and live on my own. It's quite an expense to pay
out," she said, as Simba cowered behind her legs.


As for independence, she insisted "I haven't given it a thought."


Council tax, which in the local Aberdeenshire region stands at
just over 1,500 pounds a year for an average property, including
water and sewerage charges, is also too high for Thelma and John
Paterson.


"We live in the middle of nowhere. We've no bus services, no
street lighting. All we've got is rubbish collection, and now
that's once every two weeks," Thelma said.


"For the first time I've voted SNP. I just wanted to see what
they do for us," the 69-year-old retired secretary added. "I
don't want to see separation but if it benefits Scotland..."


Housewife Anne Thomson, 39, was also exercised about the council
tax, which the SNP and Liberal Democrats, who hold the Gordon
seat, have vowed to scrap and replace with a local income tax.


Labour is committed to capping rate rises at below inflation for
the next four years.


As she struggled keep hold of her Staffordshire bull terrier,
Butch, Thomson said she was unimpressed by any of the
politicians.


"At the end of the day, it doesn't matter who wins. We're not
going to be any better off, whether it's Labour or SNP," she
said.


Independence? "I haven't really thought about it at all," she
added.


Only Thomson's daughter, Charlene, a first-time voter at 19,
admitted to being charged by the independence idea.


"It would be better having a better choice," she said.


"I'm voting tactically to keep the SNP out," said one woman, who
declined to give her name. She said she was concerned that talk
of independence and higher taxes would prompt foreign businesses
located in Scotland to move down south.


As for SNP's Salmond, he told reporters what matters was Scots
choosing a new government.


"We have got to earn people's trust and respect. If we do that...
, that's the point at which we can offer people the opportunity
to vote on their constitutional future," he said.

