

Parliament's decision Thursday to hold early elections put the
crisis between Turkey's Islamist-rooted government and its
secularists -- including the powerful army -- on hold, with both
sides in a position to claim credit for the respite.


The army, reclaiming its old role of arbiter in Turkish politics
with a memorandum last Friday threatening action unless the
government protects Turkey's secularist tradition, can pride
itself on having prevented a former Islamist, Foreign Minister
Abdullah Gul, from becoming Turkey's next president.


The military has intervened four times in Turkish politics in the
past 50 years, twice by classic coups with tanks in the streets
in 1960 and 1980, and twice by the more sophisticated "coup by
communique" method in 1971 and 1997.


In the last of these, they forced the ouster of Turkey's first
Islamist premier, Necmettin Erbakan, the political mentor of both
Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Gul, who since say --
unconvincingly, for their dectractors -- that they have renounced
their radical Muslim past.


The only difference this time is that Erdogan's Justice and
Development Party (AKP) government would have none of it.


Erdogan can thus pride himself on being the first leader in
modern Turkey's 83-year history to tell the military off in no
uncertain terms and remind them stiffly that they "remain under
the orders of the prime ministry."


He maintains, in the eyes of his followers, the mantle of
champion of democracy who didn't even have to withdraw the
candidacy of Gul, his closest aide -- even if Gul is likely to
drop out after a repeated, probably inconclusive first round of
presidentiual voting in Parliament on Sunday.


The question now is what will happen after the July 22 snap poll
-- brought forward from November 4 -- which, all analysts agree,
was the perfect face- saving solution for all, as demonstrated by
the recovery of the Turkish stock and currency markets as soon as
it was announced.


Many observers, however, believe the AKP will still come out
ahead in the election, which means that the crisis, now on the
back burner, is ripe for revival.


What is it that frightens secularists so in these religion-minded
conservatives who say they are just as democratic as they are, if
not more so?


Can religion, even if crystallized in the political symbol of a
woman's headscarf, really constitute "an unprecedented threat to
the republic," as outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, among
others, put it?


To what extent do Turks today adhere to the strict secularist
regime that is a pillar of its relatively youthful republic,
built on the ashes of a decrepit Ottoman empire whose sultans
also bore the title of Caliph of the Muslim world?


Symbolically, secularism is the backbone of Kemalism, the legacy
of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who created the modern Turkish state in
1923 on a Western model devoid of all religious influence.


Two huge rallies last month for secularism and against the AKP
government, which critics accuse of eroding the separation of
state and religion, each one amassing well over one million
people, are part of the answer.


But they generate another question: although many demonstrated
against both religious influence and military intervention -- "We
are the unarmed forces of Turkey," one banner read -- many others
said they would be happy to see the army intervene to set the
limits of religion influence.


For some Turkish analysts, the Islamist-secular divide is no more
than a sort of "class struggle" for a bigger share of the
political and economic pie between the Kemalist elite and sectors
of society that feel marginalized by it.


As political commentator Cengiz Candar put it Thursday in the
business daily Referans: "Some groups that fear losing ground in
the struggle for political power are trying to survive by
clamouring that the republic is under threat."

