

Right-wing politicians from Switzerland's largest political party
on Thursday launched a campaign for a referendum to ban the
construction of minarets on mosques, claiming they symbolised an
Islamist bid for power.


The group, including more than half of the Swiss People's Party's
(SVP) parliamentarians, said in a statement that a ban would help
stop "attempts by Islamist circles to impose a legal system based
on the sharia in Switzerland."


Some of the politicians said they did not oppose mosques or
Muslims' right to worship. The Swiss constitution guarantees
religious freedoms and the legality of the initiative was
questioned by one former judge.


Parliamentarian Oskar Freysinger branded minarets "lighthouses of
jihad" while his colleague Ulrich Schlueer claimed that they were
"Islamist buildings with an imperialist connotation."


Schlueer said minarets were not a religious symbol but a sign of
a "political- religious bid for power."


Under the rules of Switzerland's "people's initiative", the
campaigners need to collect at least 100,000 signatures by
November 2008 backing their call in order to trigger a national
referendum on the issue, subject to legal checks.


The campaigners want to amend another constitutional article that
upholds peace between members of religious communities, by
inserting a clause explicitly forbidding the construction of
minarets.


The move follows at least four localised challenges by
rightwingers to plans to build small minarets or even the
principle, although the challenges have often been rejected by
local authorities or courts.


There are just two mosques in Switzerland with minarets, in
Zurich and Geneva, built in the 1960s and 1970s.


Swiss Roman Catholic bishops dealing with relations with Muslims
said in a statement that they opposed the campaign for a blanket
ban on minarets.


Supporters of the anti-minaret intitiative include 36 of the
SVP's 63 parliamentarians and two from a small hard right party.


The SVP's assembly is due to decide next month whether or not to
grant the party's support to the initiative.


The campaign will also coincide with general elections in
October. The populist SVP surged to the largest single share of
the vote in the 2003 elections, 26 percent, after a campaign
focused on curbing immigration.


There are about 311,000 Muslims among the 7.5 million strong
Swiss population, according to official statistics. Most of them
are originally from the Balkans.

