

Elite commandos guarding Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
were put on high alert Thursday after a man was shot and wounded
near the premier's official residence, police said.


"This has got nothing to do with the security of the prime
minister's house, as it was a private dispute," said police
spokesman Deependra Pathak.


A security source said commandos from the elite Special
Protection Group, who guard the prime minister, had nevertheless
been put on the "highest level of alert" as a precaution.


Singh was not at home and staff at his residence said they had
not even heard the shooting. The leafy New Delhi compound, which
has a three-tier security cordon, is guarded by some 400
commandos.


"There was no breach in the PM's security. The incident happened
quite a distance from here," a staff member at the residence, who
asked not to be named, told AFP by telephone.


The incident came to light after the victim drove to the
residence with a gunshot wound to his chest and asked for medical
treatment. Police said he was apparently shot after a row at a
nearby petrol station or racecourse.


"Every Thursday we have horse-racing at the course opposite the
prime minister's house, and it appears there was a fight between
two groups and this man was shot," a police control room
spokesman told AFP.


"The man drove to a police van parked in front of the prime
minister's house and said he had been shot. He has been
hospitalised," the spokesman said, adding the attacker was still
at large.


Singh is one of the most closely guarded politicians in the
country, which has a history of high-level assassinations.


In 1984, then prime minister Indira Gandhi was shot dead by two
of her security guards. Her son Rajiv Gandhi was also killed by a
suicide bomber in 1991 while campaigning for a second term as
premier.


Security for Singh was also increased further after an incident
last July when three ordinary people who wanted to meet the prime
minister breezed through the first security cordon at his heavily
fortified residence.

