

The top US official in Taiwan on Thursday renewed calls for the
island's parliament to approve a controversial 10-billion-US
dollar arms budget in the face of the threat from China's
military buildup.


De facto ambassador Stephen Young also said Taiwan should boost
its missile defences.


"We believe that Taiwan is not responding appropriately to the
steady build-up of military across the Taiwan Strait. It seems to
me this is a fundamental security problem for Taiwan," Young told
a press conference.


"But it unfortunately also causes Taiwan's friend the United
States to question whether our security partner here is serious
about maintaining capable defence," said Young, who is director
of the American Institute in Taiwan.


Young urged Taiwanese lawmakers to put aside their political
differences and approve the arms package, which US President
George W. Bush offered in 2001.


The arms package called for the purchase of six PAC-3 Patriot
anti-missile systems, eight conventional submarines and 12 P-3C
aircraft.


The 10-billion-dollar bill, scaled down from the original 16
billion, finally passed parliament's procedure committee in
December after nearly 70 attempts.


But it needs to be further approved by parliament's defence
committee before being forwarded to the full house for a vote.


"Taiwan's leaders from across the political spectrum here told me
that they support passage of the bill yet there has been no
action ... I think the legislature should put aside its partisan
differences and act on" the bill, Young said.


He also brushed aside as "inaccurate" reports that Washington had
agreed to let Taiwan develop offensive weapons.


"In fact what we think Taiwan should be focus on at this time is
missile defence... over the last decade China has deployed a
large number of missiles that threaten Taiwan," he said.


Taiwan President Chen Shui-bian earlier this year accused China
of "provoking" his government by targeting the island with nearly
1,000 missiles.


"We think that developing defensive capabilities is the right
thing to do. We think that offensive capabilities on either side
of the Strait are destabilising and therefore not in the interest
of peace and security," Young quoted National Security Council
senior director for East Asian affairs Dennis Wilder as saying.


"So ...I am not for offensive missiles on the Chinese side of the
Strait and I am not for offensive missiles on the Taiwan side of
the Strait," Wilder was quoted as saying.


The US is the leading arms supplier to Taiwan despite its switch
of diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing in 1979.


Some opposition lawmakers say Taiwan cannot afford the arms
package while others say the submarines would be delivered too
slowly to enable the island to keep pace with China's military
build-up.


China still considers the island part of its territory awaiting
reunification despite their split in 1949 at the end of a civil
war.

