

Two key neighbours of Iraq pledged on Thursday at an
international conference in Egypt to help end the bitter communal
strife that has torn the country apart.


"Under the present circumstances, the best way we can assist the
government and people of Iraq is to help them restore security,
stability and national solidarity and to prevent actions that
will lead to a further escalation of sectarian violence and
internal dissension," Iran's Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki
said.


The Shiite country, whose presence at the gathering was long in
doubt, has been accused of funding hardline Shiite militias in
Iraq and is seen as crucial to any attempt at stabilising the
country.


The Sunni-dominated kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which has been
increasingly concerned by the growing influence of Shiite Islam
in the region, also vowed to support reconciliation in Iraq.


"The kingdom of Saudi Arabia stands by its position of not
discriminating against any Iraqi on the grounds of religion, or
sect, or belief and we insist on not interfering in Iraq's
internal affairs," Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al- Faisal said.


"That is what we hope everyone, especially the neighbouring
countries, will do," he told the opening session of the two-day
conference in Egypt's resort of Sharm el-Sheikh marking the
launch of an international initiative to stabilise Iraq.


Another key foreign player in guaranteeing an improvement of the
security situation in Iraq is Syria, which has been accused by
Washington of funding and supporting the bloody Sunni Arab
insurgency.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice stressed before the start
of the conference that its success hinged largely on commitments
by Iraq's neighbours to help end the bloodshed.


"Iraq's neighbours have everything at stake here," Rice said on
Wednesday on her way to the meeting.


"But not all states we believe are acting in the interest of a
stable and unified Iraq. And so it's very important for the
neighbours to get together and to make that commitment and then
to act on that commitment," she added.


Iraq's neighbours are expected to hold talks on Friday focusing
on security issues, such as increasing cooperation to prevent
cross-border smuggling of weapons and militants.


Completing a shift in US policy, Rice is expected to hold rare
talks with her Syrian and Iranian counterparts during the
conference.

