

After dousing a mutiny from his own party over a scathing Lebanon
war report, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert faced a new battle
on Thursday with street protests and angry lawmakers.


Addressing a special session of parliament, opposition chief
Benjamin Netanyahu called on Olmert to step down and called for
new polls after an interim government inquiry blasted his
handling of the 34-day war.


"Our country needs new leadership," said the leader of the right-
wing Likud party that surveys show would win new elections.


"Those who failed at war cannot be those who correct the
failures... We have to go back to the people and allow them to
express themselves," he said.


Turning to Olmert, who attended the session, Zahava Gal-On of the
leftist Meretz party said: "The Winograd report does not leave
any choice to you and the defence minister -- you must resign."


"All of this government failed and the entire Olmert government
must go," she told the half-empty chamber.


Olmert, who has resisted enormous public pressure to step down
after the release of the report on Monday, was not expected to
address the session, with Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres due
to defend his beleaguered government.


Late Thursday, thousands were expected to echo the resignation
calls at a rally in Tel Aviv's Rabin Square at the first mass
public protest after the publication of the damning report.


"This demonstration is an occasion for people to show a red card
to Ehud Olmert and (Defence Minister) Amir Peretz and tell them
that they should step down," reserve General Uzi Dayan, an
organiser of the protest, told army radio.


Olmert has admitted to grave failures in the handling of the war,
but has said that resigning would be irresponsible and has vowed
that his government would work to correct the mistakes uncovered
by the inquiry.


On Tuesday the beleaguered premier put a lid on a rebellion
within his Kadima party despite a call to quit by top aide
Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and the resignation of the chief of
the party's parliamentary bloc.


"The prospect of a putsch within Kadima's ranks has burst like a
soap bubble, along with the fear of a ministerial mass desertion
that could topple Olmert's government," wrote the liberal Haaretz
newspaper.


Following a late-night meeting of Kadima's 29 deputies in the
120-seat Knesset, Peres emerged saying Olmert had received
"unprecedented support" from the MPs after only two backed
Livni's call for Olmert to step down.


"He may be a failed prime minister, but he is a fairly good
politician," wrote the tabloid Maariv.


Livni failed to rally support within Kadima by not backing her
call for Olmert to step down with her own resignation, observers
said.


And a senior aide to the premier warned that Thursday's Tel Aviv
rally was unlikely to persuade him to leave his post even if it
attracts tens of thousands of people, as hoped by the organisers.


"The prime minister cannot react to polls and demonstrations,"
Tal Silberstein, a senior advisor, told army radio.


Most recent polls show that between 65 and 68 percent of Israelis
want Olmert to resign, and that only six percent think he is
capable of carrying out the functions of his office.


Israel launched the war on Hezbollah after the Shiite militia
seized two soldiers in a deadly cross-border raid on July 12. The
war killed more than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and more
than 160 Israelis, mostly soldiers, according to government
figures.


It is widely regarded as a failure in Israel because it did not
achieve its two main objectives -- freeing the two captured
servicemen and stopping Hezbollah rocket fire.

