

Sri Lanka will close its only international airport at night from
next week following a spate of nocturnal bombing raids by Tamil
Tiger aircraft, a top aviation official told AFP.


The Bandaranaike International Airport, which shares a runway
with an adjoining military base, will close between 10:30 pm and
4:30 am from May 10, acting director general of Civil Aviation
Parakrama Dissanayake said.


Dissanayake said the advance notice was to give international
airlines a week to reschedule their flights to the troubled
island where government troops are locked in combat with
separatist Tamil Tiger rebels.


At least three international airlines suspended night flights
after Tamil Tiger guerrillas flew across the airport's airspace
to carry out bombings in the city and its suburbs in the past
month.


The nighttime closure would be for three months initially, and
any further extension would depend on the security situation,
officials said.


"The decision was taken mainly to minimise public inconvenience
which may take place due to disruption of flights. Passenger
safety is paramount to us," Dissanayake said.


With the airport shutting down three times in the past month,
many incoming flights have been diverted to the nearby southern
Indian city of Chennai.


Dubai's Emirates Airlines and Singapore Airlines have switched to
daytime flying after their services were disrupted when Tiger
rebels bombed a fuel depot near Colombo last Sunday using light
aircraft.


Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific has totally suspended its
services.


Singapore Airlines, Cathay and Emirates account for about a
quarter of Sri Lanka's air passenger traffic, according to local
travel agents.


The airport handles about 70 flights a day and the nighttime shut
down would affect 40 percent of them.


The Tigers, who are fighting for a separate state in the north
and east, carried out air attacks for the first time on March 26
by bombing the Katunayake airbase where the military parks its
fleet of supersonic jets.


Tiger guerrillas on foot had previously attacked the air base in
July 2001, when they destroyed more than a dozen military
aircraft and attacked six civilian passenger jets at the
international airport.

