

Serbian TV stations blacked out their screens and radio stations
and interrupted programming Thursday in a protest against
increasing attacks on local journalists as they marked World
Press Freedom Day.


"Noisy silence," read an inscription on black background during a
broadcast by Serbia's state-run RTS television, while a message
on the private B92 called for "long-awaited freedom."


At the same time, radio station presenters read out a declaration
by the Independent Journalists' Association of Serbia, urging
print media reporters to stop working for five minutes in a noon
protest.


The action was taken to demonstrate against a growing number of
attacks against journalists in Serbia, and the failure of
authorities to solve the crimes.


Last month, unknown attackers threw two hand grenades at the
Belgrade home of Dejan Anastasijevic, the local correspondent for
US magazine Time.


Anastasijevic, who is also a journalist known for investigative
reporting on war crimes and organised crime for Serbia's Vreme
weekly, escaped the attack unharmed.


Weeks earlier, the Beta news agency's regional chief for the
northern province of Vojvodina, Dinko Gruhonjic, received death
threats from a local neo-Nazi group.


Media organisations have since carried reports about serious
omissions in the investigations into both incidents, raising
fears about a return to the years of late autocratic president
Slobodan Milosevic.


Serbian authorities have also failed to solve the murder of
journalists Dada Vujasinovic in 1994, Slavko Curuvija in 1999 and
Milan Pantic in 2001.


The Milosevic regime crushed press freedoms in Serbia, shutting
down independent media and persecuting journalists and editors
whose reports went against those of his propaganda machine.


However, even after Milosevic's ouster in October 2000, a number
of Serbian journalists have been sentenced to jail terms and
fined enormous sums for reports critical of politicians and
powerful businessmen.


Meanwhile, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in
Europe appealed for a "safer working environment" for Serbian
journalists and the "protection of the fundamental human right to
freedom of opinion and expression."


The three unsolved murders and recent cases of harassment and
intimidation of journalists could "lead to self-censorship by
journalists who fear the state is not able to protect them," said
the head of the OSCE office in the country, Hans Ola Urstad.


"It is crucial to guarantee the safety of all media
professionals," he said.

