

The death of Iraqi militant leader Abu Omar al-Baghdadi is the
latest blow to Al-Qaeda's bid to carry the mantle of a relentless
Sunni rebellion amid challenges from rival insurgents.


Thursday's announcement by the Iraqi government that Baghdadi had
been killed came two days after a similar claim, as yet
unverified, that Al-Qaeda in Iraq kingpin Abu Ayyub al-Masri had
been killed in an internal feud.


But it is far from clear whether the infighting that has erupted
within the Sunni insurgency will weaken it or simply give it an
equally uncompromising but more nationalist face.


Baghdadi's death was reported just as three Iraqi insurgent
groups launched a merger in an explicit challenge to his "Islamic
State of Iraq" -- the umbrella group aimed at uniting Sunnis
under the banner of radical Islam.


"In order to confront local, regional, and international
challenges, an agreement has been concluded between three groups,
the Islamic Army in Iraq, the Army of the Mujahideen, and the
Ansar al-Sunna to form a united front," the group said in a
statement posted on a jihadi website.


Both alliances have carried out numerous attacks, but Baghdadi's
group is said to be behind the spectacular explosions in recent
months that have killed hundreds of civilians and frustrated the
government's efforts to impose order.


Many experts believe the announcement of a new alliance between
Ansar al-Sunna and the Islamic Army points to a deepening rivalry
among Islamists in the Sunni insurgency and a serious challenge
to Al-Qaeda's Iraqi franchise.


This new front "is no friend of America, or of democracy in Iraq
-- but, should it succeed, it will present an existential
political threat to the future of Al- Qaeda in Iraq," said Evan
Kohlmann, an expert on Jihadi websites.


"In fact, it is arguably a far more significant setback for Al-
Qaeda than anything achieved thus far by the so-called 'Anbar
Salvation Council' or other such recent darlings of the media,"
he wrote on his Counterterrorism Blog.


Unlike those groups, in which tribes from a restive western Sunni
province have agreed to support a US-led security crackdown, the
new front remains firmly committed to "the total departure of the
occupiers."


We will "undertake jihad (holy war) in Iraq until we realize all
our goals, which include the complete departure of every kind of
occupier, and the establishment of the religion of Allah," the
new coalition's statement said.


Despite the statement's religious overtones, many experts see the
Islamic Army of Iraq as more nationalistic than Al-Qaeda, which
views Iraq as a single battlefield in an epic global war.


"While the language is typically religious, the focus is
exclusively Iraqi, and says nothing about wider global jihad,"
said Marc Lynch, a professor at Williams College and an expert on
Islamist groups.


"This looks like the formalisation of the coalition against Al-
Qaeda's Islamic State of Iraq," he adds, in a posting on his
internet blog, "Abu Aardvark".


But while the Islamic Army has been at loggerheads with Al-Qaeda
in Iraq it is fiercely opposed to US forces and to the Shiite-led
government in Baghdad.


We do not recognise "the sectarian collaborator government of
(Prime Minister Nuri) al-Maliki nor the sectarian elections and
their outcome... nor the constitution written in the shadow of
the missiles of the occupiers."


In the statement the new front vows to continue targeting
American forces.


"America is staggering after a mirage, so you must strike her
with an iron fist until she awakes from her stupor, until Allah
disappoints her, breaks her spine, reveals her nakedness, and
makes her sorrow eternal."

