

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Thursday went into a
meeting with her Syrian counterpart Walid Muallem, an AFP
journalist reported.


Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit escorted Muallem into
a meeting room where Rice was waiting and withdrew shortly
afterwards to leave the two officials together.


The rare meeting was taking place on the sidelines of an
international conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-
Sheikh aimed at stabilising war- torn Iraq.


The last high-ranking US official to hold talks with Syrian
officials was then deputy secretary of state Richard Armitage,
who travelled to Damascus in January 2005.


"I expect they will have a discussion on border security issues.
We'll see if it happens," a US state department official said on
condition of anonymity before the meeting.


Rice also had a brief exchange with Iranian Foreign Minister
Manouchehr Mottaki earlier Thursday and could yet hold further
talks with him before the conference wraps up.


The series of contacts mark a shift in US policy towards old foes
Syria and Iran, which Washington has repeatedly accused of
funding and abetting Iraq's Sunni Arab insurgency and hardline
Shiite militias respectively.


Both countries are seen as crucial in attempts to improve
security in Iraq and will be part of a meeting of Iraq's
neighbours due to take place on Friday.


The US military's chief spokesman in Baghdad said on Thursday
that Syria appears to have taken measures to stem the flow of
foreign extremist fighters crossing its border into Iraq.


"There is some movement from the Syrians. There has in fact been
a reduction in the amount of foreign fighter flow making its way
into Iraq at this point from Syria," Major General William
Caldwell told reporters.


Caldwell said he did not know why Syria appeared to be changing
its stance.


Asked what Rice would do if the issue of Lebanon came up in her
discussions with Muallem, the US official said she would
emphasise the US position.


"She will state the American policy and it is that the Lebanese
government, Lebanese independence and the tribunal are not for
discussion," the official said.


The United States accuses Syria of backing the Lebanese Shiite
movement Hezbollah which is campaigning to replace the government
of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora.


Hezbollah is trying to thwart the establishment of a UN-backed
special court to investigate the February 2005 assassination of
former Lebanese premier Rafiq Hariri in its present form.


Hariri was a strong opponent of Syria's long domination of
Lebanon and many believe Damascus was behind his murder,
something it strongly denies.


Syria has denied that arms are making their way over the border
into Lebanon and warned against any moves to station
international troops along the frontier.


Damascus occupied Lebanon for 30 years until being forced by
popular protests to withdraw following Hariri's assassination.

