

Auto giant General Motors said Thursday its latest quarterly
profit was dented by losses at its lending arm due to weakness in
the housing market even as results in automotive operations
improved.


The net profit for the Detroit giant for the first quarter
amounted to 62 million dollars, compared with 602 million in the
same period a year earlier.


The results excluding special item were 17 cents per share, well
below market expectations of 84 cents per share.


Overall revenues for GM fell 16 percent from a year ago to 43.9
billion dollars. That was better than Wall Street forecasts of
40.88 billion.


Automotive operations produced a net profit of 272 million
dollars in the quarter as GM showed some progress in pulling out
of a slide that has allowed Japan's Toyota to overtake the
Detroit firm as the world's biggest automaker.


GM's auto operations in North America, undergoing a major
overhaul, lost 85 million dollars, narrower that the 251-million-
dollar deficit a year earlier.


"The first quarter of 2007 marked another quarter of continued
progress in GM's global automotive operations," said GM chairman
and chief executive Rick Wagoner.


"We were able to expand vehicle sales and improve automotive
profitability based on the progress in our turnaround initiatives
in North America and Europe and our expansion strategy for key
growth markets like China, Russia and South America.


"We continue to see progress on the automotive bottom line as we
implement the strategies laid out two years ago."


They key area of weakness for the company was the GMAC financial
arm, the automaker now holds 49 percent of GMAC after selling a
majority stake last year.


GMAC initially was set up to finance car purchases but later
expanded to mortgages, and now the unit is hurting from the
weakness in so-called subprime or nonprime loans to people with
weak credit histories.


"The decline in reported GM earnings is more than accounted for
by losses in the residential mortgage business of GMAC Financial
Services (GMAC), driven by continued weakness in the US nonprime
mortgage sector," GM said in a statement.


GMAC suffered a loss of 305 million dollars compared with a
profit of 495 million a year earlier.


The GMAC unit Residential Capital LLC (ResCap) alone suffered a
loss of 910 million dollars "due to continued pressures in the US
mortgage market," GM said.

