

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Iranian Foreign
Minister Manouchehr Mottaki had a brief exchange over lunch
Thursday, Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit said.


"There was an exchange of some words, yes. They are civilised
people after all," said Abul Gheit, adding that the lunch was
attended only by foreign ministers.


When asked if Rice and Mottaki sat next to each other, he
answered: "Beside each other you mean? No, but the table was a
small table."


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack confirmed the brief
exchange but added that it did not go beyond basic civilities.


"They said hello."


Rice and Mottaki are taking part in a two-day international
conference in the Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh aimed at
stabilising Iraq.


Speculation has abounded in recent days over possible talks
between Rice and Mottaki, in what would be the highest-level
bilateral discussions between the two countries since they broke
off ties in 1980.


Despite Thursday's brief encounter being empty of political
substance, it was believed to reflect a new willingness on the
part of Washington and Tehran to engage in some form of dialogue.


Mottaki and Rice could yet meet again before the conference wraps
up on Friday.


Washington has recently modified its stance and displayed new
willingness to engage old enemies Iran and Syria, both seen as
key to Iraq's security.


Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Rice indicated she would also
be ready to discuss issues other than Iraq with the Iranian
foreign minister, including the standoff over the Islamic
republic's nuclear programme.


"I think I could handle any question as asked," she said.


Rice and Mottaki's respective predecessors, Colin Powell and
Kamal Kharazi, were placed next to each other during a meal at a
similar conference in Sharm el- Sheikh in November 2004.


However, officials had said afterwards that their exchange did
not go beyond polite conversation.


Rice is also expected to hold talks later Thursday with her
Syrian counterpart, Walid Muallem.

