

Commandos guarding Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh went on
alert Thursday after a man fed up with his wife shot himself near
the premier's fortified official residence, police said.


Police initially suspected a shoot-out had taken place after the
man turned up at the PM's residence with a gunshot wound to his
chest and asked for medical treatment.


"But now we have found a hand-written suicide note in which the
man has admitted shooting himself," New Delhi police spokesman
Rajan Bhagat said, adding a pistol was also found in the man's
car.


Police identified the man as 42-year-old Kishore Lal, a resident
of New Delhi's middle-class Dwarka residential district.


"Relations between him and his wife were not too good and so he
shot himself," district police chief I.B. Rani told AFP.


"Since he was in hospital we couldn't ask him why he chose to do
this outside the prime minister's house," she said, adding Lal
would be arrested on charges of attempting suicide, which carries
a two-year prison term.


According to another police source, "Lal's wife nagged him almost
daily."


Doctors said Lal was in a critical condition but was expected to
recover.


"We think he would be soon on the recovery mode," a surgeon from
the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital said after the bullet was removed
from Lal's chest.


Officials said the incident posed no security risk to the prime
minister, who was not present in his official residence at the
time.


"This has got nothing to do with the security of the prime
minister's house," said Deependra Pathak, another police
spokesman.


A security source said commandos from the elite Special
Protection Group, who guard the prime minister, were nevertheless
put on the "highest level of alert" as a precaution, after
initially learning that a shoot-out had taken place.


The leafy New Delhi compound, which has a three-tier security
cordon, is guarded by some 400 commandos.


Singh is one of the most closely guarded politicians in the
country, which has a history of high-level assassinations.


In October 1984, then prime minister Indira Gandhi was shot dead
by two of her security guards in her New Delhi official home.


Her son, Rajiv Gandhi, was killed by a female suicide bomber in
May 1991 while campaigning for a second term as premier.


Security for Singh was increased further after an incident last
July when two air hostesses and a man who wanted to meet the
prime minister breezed through the first security cordon at his
heavily fortified residence.


The airspace over Singh's home is marked a no-fly-zone and a
state-owned hotel which overlooked the three-bungalow complex was
also shut down several years ago as a precaution.

