

Rosneft bought key assets from bankrupt oil group Yukos for 6.8
billion dollars on Thursday, auction officials said, in a deal
that according to analysts will make the state-controlled firm
Russia's largest oil producer.


The auction took place at Yukos headquarters in Moscow and
included the sale of Tomskneft, the East Siberian Oil and Gas
company and other major production and refining units in eastern
Siberia.


Neft Aktiv, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rosneft, and Unitex, a
company linked by Russian newspapers to Russian state-run gas
giant Gazprom, were the two bidders in the auction and the
starting price was 6.4 billion dollars.


"The price is acceptable.... It's a considerable sum that will go
towards paying creditors," said Nikolai Lashkevich, a spokesman
for Yukos' court-appointed bankruptcy administrator.


The sale was arranged by Russia's state property agency in order
to pay tax debts owed by Yukos to the state after a series of
fraud inquiries that have dismembered the oil empire.


Yukos was once Russia's largest oil group and its CEO, Mikhail
Khodorkovsky, the richest man in the country. But, starting in
2003, the group came under a slew of fraud inquiries and it has
since been bankrupted.


Critics have seen the fate of Yukos as a Kremlin-controlled
campaign to win back energy assets for state companies and block
the politically ambitious Khodorkvosky, who is now serving an
eight-year prison sentence in Siberia.


Analysts said earlier that the purchase of Yukos assets in
eastern Siberia would allow Rosneft to overtake privately-owned
Lukoil in terms of oil production capacity.


Only a few years ago, Rosneft was a little-known state oil firm
but the company, whose chairman Igor Sechin is also the deputy
head of the Kremlin administration, has benefited greatly from
the demise of Yukos.


In 2004, Rosneft bought Yuganskneftegaz, a key production asset,
in an opaque transaction and at a fraction of the price for the
asset estimated by independent experts.


Analysts said that Thursday's purchase was particularly important
for Rosneft because it would help boost the company's refining
capacity, widening possibilities for future development for the
company.

