

Southeast Asian extremist group Jemaah Islamiyah has more than
900 members and remains a major security threat despite extensive
police efforts to close it down, a report said Thursday.


Al-Qaeda-linked Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), responsible for the deadly
2002 and 2005 bombings in Indonesia's Bali, has formed a hit
squad with specially trained militants to carry out operations,
the International Crisis Group said in its latest report.


But rather than target Westerners in future bombing attacks, JI
has switched tactics to focus on assassinating senior police,
prosecutors and others in authority in its base of Indonesia.


The Brussels-based think-tank said such attacks were not only
more cost effective but likely to strengthen JI's support network
and number of recruits.


"JI is in a building and consolidation phase, which means that it
is unlikely to be interested in large, expensive operations that
could further weaken its support base," said Sidney Jones, ICG's
Southeast Asia project director.


The report said many JI militants were opposed to bombings, such
as its 2002 Bali attack and 2004 blast outside the Australian
embassy in Jakarta, as they lacked religious justification and
risked high Muslim casualties.


The Bali nightclub bombings killed 202 people, mainly foreign
tourists, and were blamed on JI's then fugitive leader Noordin
Mohammed Top, who has since left the extremist group and remains
Southeast Asia's most wanted man.


For many JI members, jihadi attacks in restive areas like the
religiously divided Poso on Indonesia's Central Sulawesi were
more important, it said.


Violence has often flared in Poso where Muslims and Christians
live in roughly equal numbers. Three Christian school girls were
beheaded there in 2005 in a crime that drew international
condemnation.


"Noordin's attempt to bomb the Australian embassy cost about
8,000 dollars. JI's assassination of the head of the Central
Sulawesi Protestant Church cost 25 dollars," Jones said.


The group's strength has been weakened in the wake of a series of
raids on hideouts, seizure of explosives and weapons and arrest
of militants by Indonesia's anti-terror police, it said.


But JI, whose ultimate aim is to establish an Islamic state in
Indonesia, the world's largest Muslim-populated country, was
still a serious security threat and its structure remained
intact.


"The hundreds of arrests since the first Bali bombs may have
disrupted the organisation less than originally assumed, although
ideological differences over tactics and strategy are profound,"
the report said.


The ICG warned that the government needed to focus on breeding
grounds for Islamic radicalism particularly in prisons where
convicted JI bombers are on death row and others are serving
sentences.


"The Indonesian police get high marks for their work in
identifying and detaining JI members responsible for violence,"
said Robert Templer, ICG's Asian programme director.


"Now the Indonesian government needs to pay much more attention
to prisons, including what goes on inside, visitors and the
material they bring, and pre- and post-release programmes."

