

US authorities are probing a 1997 bombing that killed an Italian
tourist in Havana to determine whether it involved former CIA
agent Luis Posada Carriles, who faces trial in Texas on
immigration charges, the Miami Herald reported Thursday.


The daily said FBI agents recently traveled to the communist-led
country to gather evidence in the 1997 attack, one of several
Cuba claims was masterminded by Posada Carriles, who had been
convicted in the deadly 1976 downing of a Cuban jetliner.


The paper said the Havana hotel bombing is the focus of a federal
grand jury probe in Newark, New Jersey.


A Cuban-born Venezuelan national staunchly opposed to President
Fidel Castro's communist, Posada Carriles, 79, is currently under
home detention in Miami pending the May 11 start of his trial on
charges he entered the United States illegally.


In an unusual move, FBI agents visited Cuba last year to
interview witnesses, review forensic evidence and visit crime
scenes, the newspaper said.


Cuba claims Posada Carriles planned the 1997 bombing at Havana's
Copacabana hotel that killed Italian tourist Fabio di Celmo,
whose family is seeking Posada's prosecution.


Publicly, Cuba and Venezuela, have accused the United States of
harbouring a known terrorist at a time when Washington claims to
be waging a war on terror.


Posada Carriles was convicted in Venezuela in 1976 of
masterminding the downing of the Cuban jet off Barbados, which
killed 73 people.


He escaped from prison in 1985, was sentenced to eight years in
jail in Panama in a 2000 bomb plot to assassinate Castro, and was
pardoned four years later.


He was detained by US immigration officials in May 2005 for
entering the United States illegally and lying about his
immigration status.


He was released on a 350,000-dollar bond on April 19, pending the
May 11 start of his trial.


Posada Carriles is widely considered a hero among the anti-Castro
exile community in Miami.


Venezuela and Cuba have both demanded his extradition, but US
authorities refused, saying he might be tortured.


The US government is also seeking to bar Posada Carriles from
talking about his links with the agency when he goes on trial.


In a nine-page motion filed with a federal tribunal in El Paso,
Texas, last week, state prosecutors claimed those ties were not
relevant to the trial  since his relationship with the CIA ended
more than 30 years ago.


Declassified US documents show that Posada Carriles worked for
the CIA from 1965 to June 1976. He reportedly helped the US
government ferry supplies to the Contra rebels who waged a bloody
campaign to topple the socialist Sandinista government in
Nicaragua in the 1980s.

