

South Africa's main opposition party, widely seen as the voice of
the white minority, has a rare chance to shake off its
conservative image when it elects a new leader this weekend.


A black man, a woman and a farmer are all vying for the
leadership of the Democratic Alliance at a party conference near
Johannesburg, replacing the retiring veteran Tony Leon.


Cape Town mayor Helen Zille is favourite to win the three-horse
race and see off a challenge from the party's black chairman Joe
Seremane and Eastern Cape leader Athol Trollip when members cast
their votes on Sunday.


While Leon, a lawyer who entered parliament in his 20s, faced
accusations of elitism and racism from the ruling African
National Congress (ANC), similar charges against his potential
successors will be harder to stick.


All three, for example, are fluent in the Xhosa indigenous
language on top of English and Afrikaans and all have had
succesful careers outside politics.


Zille first came to prominence when she helped expose events
behind the killing of the black rights activist Steve Biko in
police custody while working as a journalist 30 years ago, before
becoming provincial education minister.


Her experience as mayor of Cape Town over the last year has also
earned her respect as a competent administrator who understands
the need to appeal across the racial spectrum.


"Our biggest challenge in this country is the politics of
identity ... to break away from the shackles of race," Zille said
as she announced her candidacy last month.


Seremane, a teacher by training, spent six years as a prisoner
alongside Nelson Mandela on Robben Island for his anti-apartheid
activities in the radical Pan Africanist Congress.


Although he wants people to stop "harping on" about race, his
colour is seen as a solution to much of the party's problems
although his age (69) and lack of charisma have proved a
drawback.


Trollip was largely unknown outside the DA before announcing his
candidacy, but made headlines when he stated he was white on the
outside and black inside.


"This is a very exciting time," University of the Western Cape
political studies lecturer Keith Gottschalk told AFP.


"All three candidates are at least trilingual. It is symbolic and
shows that a new generation is emerging to the top of the DA who
will be serious about broadening party support."


The DA, the official parliamentary opposition with 57 MPs out of
400, has little support among blacks. Most of its voters are
English and Afrikaans speakers, coloureds (South Africans of
mixed-race) and some Indians.


Steven Friedman, a researcher at the Institute for Democracy in
South Africa, based in Pretoria, believes the country needs an
opposition with empathy for the ills black people suffered under
the apartheid regime.


Friedman cited a DA election campaign based on "fighting back"
against the government, which was interpreted by many blacks as a
fight against them.


"The issue for the DA is not about attracting black votes. It
needs to position itself to become part of the mainstream South
African discussion."


The DA was born in 2000 from a marriage between the former
liberal Democratic Party, also headed by Leon, and the New
National Party, a successor of the National Party that governed
the country through apartheid.


The alliance has been marked by tensions between liberals and
conservatives which still remain.


Leon, who retires after eight years as leader of the official
opposition and 13 as an MP, believes a black leader might help
attract new votes, but this was not enough in itself.


He has refused to anoint a successor, saying only they would need
courage.


"It is a very lonely job. Sometimes it is very difficult,
sometimes it seems the whole world is against you," he told AFP.

