

The oldest pro-British paramilitary group in Northern Ireland
announced Thursday it was renouncing violence in a new sign of
progress towards peace ahead of the restart of devolved
government next week.


The Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), a Protestant organisation whose
members support the union with Britain and oppose any move
towards a united Ireland, said it was putting arms "beyond reach"
and stopping military training.


The statement came five days before the restoration of power-
sharing in Northern Ireland on Tuesday, led by Ian Paisley's
Protestant Democratic Unionists and Gerry Adams' Catholic Sinn
Fein.


"We have taken the above measures in an earnest attempt to
augment the return of accountable democracy to the people of
Northern Ireland and, as such, to engender confidence that the
constitutional question has now been firmly settled," said 73
-year-old Gusty Spence, a convicted killer who helped found the
modern day UVF.


The Irish Republican Army, linked to Sinn Fein, declared an end
to its campaign of violence over two years ago and has
decommissioned its arsenal of weapons.


The UVF said it had informed the Independent International
Commission on Decommissioning (IICD), set up to monitor the
disarmament of paramilitary organisations, of its decision.


But the IICD said it was "concerned" by the UVF's plans to deal
with the issue of its arms independently, adding it wanted to
work with them to make sure weapons were destroyed for good.


Acknowledging "increasing community acceptance that the
mainstream republican offensive has ended," the UVF said it would
deactivate service units and stop recruiting as of midnight (2300
GMT) Thursday.


"We call on all violent dissidents to desist immediately and urge
all relevant governments and their security apparatus to deal
swiftly and efficiently with this threat," Spence said, reading
out a statement in Belfast.


"Failure to do so will inevitably provoke another generation of
loyalists towards armed resistance."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman welcomed
the announcement, but said his government wanted to see "how
today's statement is translated into action."


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern echoed these comments, saying
he hoped the UVF would work with the IICD "with a view to full
decommissioning."


Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain added that he
would consider lifting the government's ban on the UVF in the
wake of the move.


Although the UVF first declared a ceasefire almost 14 years ago,
it is thought to have been responsible for several killings since
then.


Blair and Ahern, who helped broker the peace in Northern Ireland
after decades of civil unrest, have repeatedly called on loyalist
paramilitaries to shun violence and criminality.


The UVF is believed to have been responsible for several hundred
deaths during "The Troubles" which ran three decades from the
late 1960s.

