

Armed men abducted at least 12 foreigners in three separate
incidents overnight in southern Nigeria in the latest spate of
violence to hit Africa's biggest oil producer.


The latest attacks, for which no group has claimed
responsibility, follow another kidnapping Tuesday in which six
expatriates were seized from a floating oil vessel by the
country's most high profile armed group, MEND.


On Wednesday night a Dutch unemployed oil worker was kidnapped
from a bar in the southern town of Warri in the oil-rich Delta
state.


Thursday in the early hours of the morning three Korean
executives and eight Filipino workers were seized from a
construction site in Rivers state after a gunfight.


And Italian energy group ENI said unidentified assailants
kidnapped several of its employees who were working on a floating
storage vessel anchored 90 kilometers (55 miles) off the coast of
Rivers.


Industry sources in Nigeria said five people were taken from the
vessel, the Mystras, during the attack.


ENI said there were 85 people on the vessel including 22
foreigners from several countries, when the attack occurred, but
declined to specify how many of them were kidnapped or what their
nationality was.


The same industry sources said the shootout in which the Koreans,
all Daewoo group executives, and the Filipinos were seized
appeared to be well-planned.


It happened around 1 am (0000 GMT) at the Afam 6 power plant
construction site close to the Rivers state capital Port
Harcourt.


Daewoo officials said a total of 1,755 workers including 148
Koreans were at the site, which was guarded by Nigerian soldiers
and security officials, at the time of the attack.


One industry source said the attack looked as if it had been
carried out with inside knowledge as the Daewoo managing director
among those kidnapped had just arrived in the area.


"Two minibuses of full of armed guys came and shot up the nearest
roadblock, then they used dynamite on the Afam 6 gate and
perimeter fence," the source told AFP.


He said the attackers also shot up the nearby home of a military
commander, but there was no immediate confirmation.


Officials in Seoul said the shoootout lasted for about 40 minutes
but refused to confirm a report by South Korea's Yonhap news
agency that several people were dead or injured.


The kidnapped Koreans include Chung Tae-Young, a 52-year-old
Daewoo managing director who was on a business trip to the area,
and two top Daewoo officials in Nigeria.


An emergency control centre made up of Daewoo officials and South
Korean diplomats in Nigeria has been set up to work for an early
release of the hostages, the foreign ministry spokesman said.


"An emergency meeting will be held soon at the president's office
(in Seoul)," he said.


Rich in oil reserves, the Niger Delta area has been at the centre
of a long confrontation between the government, militants who
claim to be fighting for a larger share of the country's oil
resources for local people and a plethora of armed gangs.


The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND),
which carried out Tuesday's kidnapping warned in an email
statement it would carry out other such attacks.


MEND is the best-organised and best-equipped of the militant
groups in the region, industry and security sources say.


There have been frequent kidnappings of foreign workers in the
Niger delta in recent years. Nine Daewoo workers were taken
hostage in January but were later released unharmed.


MEND is responsible for at least one previous kidnapping of South
Koreans, in which three Daewoo officials and two from South
Korea's state-owned gas corporation were abducted in June last
year. All five were later freed.

