

Northern Ireland's oldest pro-British paramilitary group
announced Thursday it was renouncing violence, in the latest sign
of the once-troubled province's progress towards peace.


The Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), a Protestant organisation whose
members support the union with Britain and oppose any move
towards a united Ireland, said it was putting arms "beyond reach"
and stopping military training.


The statement came five days before the restoration of power-
sharing in Northern Ireland on Tuesday, led by Ian Paisley's
Protestant Democratic Unionists and Gerry Adams's Catholic Sinn
Fein.


"We have taken the above measures in an earnest attempt to
augment the return of accountable democracy to the people of
Northern Ireland and, as such, to engender confidence that the
constitutional question has now been firmly settled," founder
member Gusty Spence, a convicted killer, said.


The Irish Republican Army, of which Sinn Fein was once the
political wing, declared an end to its campaign of violence over
two years ago and has decommissioned its arsenal of weapons.


The UVF said it had informed the Independent International
Commission on Decommissioning (IICD), set up to monitor the
disarmament of paramilitary organisations, of its decision.


But the IICD said it was "concerned" by the UVF's plans to deal
with the issue of its arms independently, adding it wanted to
work with them to make sure weapons were destroyed for good.


Acknowledging "increasing community acceptance that the
mainstream republican offensive has ended," the UVF said it would
deactivate service units and stop recruiting as of midnight (2300
GMT) Thursday.


"We call on all violent dissidents to desist immediately and urge
all relevant governments and their security apparatus to deal
swiftly and efficiently with this threat," Spence said, reading
out a statement in Belfast.


"Failure to do so will inevitably provoke another generation of
loyalists towards armed resistance."


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman welcomed
the announcement, but said the government wanted to see "how
today's statement is translated into action."


Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Hain added that he
would consider lifting the government's ban on the UVF in the
wake of the move.


Although the UVF first declared a ceasefire almost 14 years ago,
it is thought to have been responsible for several killings since
then.


Blair and Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, who helped broker
the peace in Northern Ireland after decades of civil unrest, have
repeatedly called on loyalist paramilitaries to shun violence and
criminality.


The loyalist UVF is believed to have been responsible for several
hundred deaths during "The Troubles" which ran three decades from
the late 1960s.

