

International relief agency Oxfam on Thursday blasted the
international community for not responding to a United Nations
appeal for donations to address a humanitarian crisis in Chad.


"The international community has so far failed to halt the spread
of this conflict," Oxfam director Jeremy Hobbs said in a
statement.


"This has been an international political failure. The crisis
must not become an international humanitarian failure due to a
lack of adequate funding," he insisted.


The agency pointed out that the UN this year has appealed for 174
million dollars (128 million euros) to help the central African
country.


Oxfam, which is participating in the humanitarian efforts in the
eastern Goz Beida region near the Sudanese border, criticised
Japan, Italy, Spain, Australia, German and France for their
"inadequate or non-existent response to the UN humanitarian
appeal for Chad."


The group claimed that crucial projects to supply water and
sanitation systems lacked funding.


"Oxfam is calling on rich countries to fund urgently the appeal
if the increasingly desperate humanitarian needs are to be
addressed," the group said.


Eastern Chad has been wracked by fighting between rebels hostile
to President Idriss Deby Itno and government troops.


Traditional ethnic tensions in the region have also been
exacerbated by a surge in the number of internally displaced
people and refugees pouring in from neighbouring Sudanese Darfur,
where four years of ethnic strife have resulted in at least
200,000 deaths and the displacement of more than two million
people, according to UN figures.


"The humanitarian crisis is quickly deteriorating with increased
needs because of the recent numbers of people forced to flee the
fighting," Oxfam said, pointing out that since last May, "the
numbers of Chadians forced to flee the fighting in the eastern
part of the country has more than quadrupled, from 30,000 to
140,000."


"The situation has now reached an even more acute crisis with
10,000 people needing urgent assistance following attacks over
the last month," Oxfam said.

