

Groups representing indigenous peoples in Guyana, Cambodia,
Malaysia and Papua New Guinea on Thursday urged the Swiss bank
Credit Suisse to pay them 10 million dollars (7.0 million euros)
in compensation because of its links with a Malaysian timber
company.


The company, Samling, retained Credit Suisse as an adviser during
its stock market flotation in February, along with HSBC and
Australian bank Macquarie.


The indigenous peoples claim that Samling's operations have
damaged their communities by cutting down forests and in some
cases, polluting sources of drinking water.


"We're slowly dying," a representative of the Penan people from
Malaysia told journalists at a press conference here.


"We are asking that Credit Suisse give back the profits generated
by the stock exchange debut, 10 million dollars, to the
indigenous peoples harmed by Samling," said Lukas Straumann of
the Swiss environmental group, the Bruno Manser Fund.


Samling operates in 3.9 million hectares (15,054 square miles) of
forest across Malaysia's Sarawak peninsula and Guyana in Latin
America alone.


The company rejected allegations of a cavalier attitude towards
indigenous peoples and said it always operates within the law.


"Before we begin operations, we always consult with the local
communities to get their feedback and come to amicable agreements
before we carry out harvesting work," Samling said in a statement
on its website.


The Bruno Manser Fund and another Swiss group, the Society for
Threatened Peoples (GfbV), said they had met with Credit Suisse
on February 23 but the talks proved fruitless.


They accuse the bank of not adhering to its own charter on
sustainable development when accepting to work with Samling.


They now plan to attend the Credit Suisse's annual general
meeting on Friday and invited representatives from the indigenous
peoples to accompany them.


A bank spokesman said a thorough investigation had shown that
Samling operated in accordance with all relevant laws.


Credit Suisse will also organise a meeting between the indigenous
peoples and Samling itself, he added.

