

Gamba Osaka overcame a one-man deficit with Brazilian striker
Bare equalising to hold Vissel Kobe to a 2-2 draw in the J-League
football on Thursday.


Only eight minutes into the match Brazilian Magno Alves, the
team's top scorer, was sent off due to rough play and the 2005
champions were left with 10 men for the remainder of the match.


Former Japanese international midfielder Yasuhito Endo netted a
17-metre free kick in the 16th minute, wrong-footing Kobe
goalkeeper Tatsuya Umemoto.


Another former international, Yoshito Okubo, and Hiroyuki Komoto
struck back in the 17th and 56th minutes respectively, but
Brazilian striker Bare fired home an equalizer on a Takahiro
Futagawa pass in the 64th minute to tie it up.


"I was in a position where the goalkeeper couldn't see me," said
Endo. "It wasn't a good shot, so I was very lucky today."


Osaka coach Akira Nishino was satisfied with his players'
performance under pressure.


"I sent (Ryuji) Bando onto the pitch because we really wanted to
gain three points from a win. We were behind (after Alves was
sent off)," said Nishino.


"But my players didn't show the disadvantage of 10 men. I want to
praise them -- they have done a lot of hard work," he added.


Osaka stood with six wins and two draws against one defeat for 20
points to keep a two-point lead over Urawa Red Diamonds, three
over Kashiwa Reysol and four over Shimizu S-Pulse.


Yokohama Marinos, Kawasaki Frontale, Nagoya Grampus Eight and
Jubilo Iwata trail them with 15 points each.


Defending champions Urawa failed to cash in on many scoring
chances against 10-men JEF United Chiba to draw 1-1, as Brazilian
striker Washington's 27th- minute goal was cancelled out by
Hiroki Mizumoto's reply in the 49th.


Kashiwa also drew with Albirex Niigata 0-0, while Korean striker
Cho Jae-Jin scored twice to take Shimizu to a 2-1 win over Iwata.


Yokohama Marinos defeated Kawasaki Frontale 2-1, and Nagoya lost
to Oita Trinita 2-1.


In other games, Kashima Antlers defeated FC Tokyo 2-1, Sanfrecce
Hiroshima outclassed Omiya Ardija 2-1, and Ventforet Kofu beat
Yokohama FC 1-0.

