

A worsening climate of violence against the press in Sri Lanka
has resulted in de facto censorship, the island's main media
rights group said Thursday as it marked international press
freedom day.


With seven journalists murdered over the past year and two more
still missing, the Free Media Movement (FMM) said fundamental
rights and freedom of expression have been curtailed due to
escalating fighting between government troops and Tamil Tiger
rebels.


"Abductions, murders and severe erosion of safety for working
journalists stunts the growth of investigative reportage and
results in a de facto censorship," the FMM said.


"The situation is already impossible, and unbelievably, getting
worse," said the FMM, which represents journalists and rights
group activists.


"The Free Media Movement considers World Press Freedom Day in
2007 to be a day to mourn, not celebrate, media freedom in Sri
Lanka."


"Facts, which speak for themselves, on the deterioration of media
freedom and fundamental rights in Sri Lanka in general, deny us
even a cautious optimism on securing and strengthening media
freedom in the near future."


There is no formal censorship in the island, but authorities have
blocked independent journalists from visiting the rebel-held
north of the island.


Rights groups have also accused Tamil Tiger rebels of killing
dissidents and not tolerating any media freedom in areas under
their control.


In the northern district of Jaffna, the heartland of the island's
minority Tamils, an association of Tamil journalists said several
of their colleagues have been hunted down and shot dead with
impunity.


"So far, six Tamil journalists have lost their lives for writing
unpalatable news about the misdeeds of those in power," the North
Sri Lanka Journalists' Association said in a statement.


The US ambassador to Sri Lanka, Robert Blake, also issued a
message lamenting the situation.


"Last year, Sri Lanka had the honour to host the UN's observance
of World Press Freedom Day. But in the year that has followed,
Sri Lanka has seen newspapers shut down, broadcasters taken off
the air, and journalists from all communities murdered, abducted
or intimidated," Blake said.


More than 4,800 people have been killed in fighting since
December 2005 despite a 2002 truce.

