

Out of the nightmare of a mass murder at a US university, tales
of courage and heroism have begun to emerge, such as the elderly
professor who died while blocking the door to his classroom so
his students could escape through a window.


The "professor who did not fear death" was one headline in USA
Today as testimonials to those who died and stories of dramatic
escapes were highlighted two days after the massacre of 32
students and professors at Virginia Tech.


The story of Liviu Librescu, 76, an Israeli Holocaust survivor
who survived a Romanian concentration camp only to give his life
saving others from a madman, spread rapidly across the campus in
Blacksburg, Virginia.


"I was told he was very courageous," said one cadet in a Virginia
Tech uniform who was waiting to perform the national anthem at a
memorial service for the victims Wednesday.


As soon as he heard the shots elsewhere in Norris Hall, the
renowned aerospace engineering professor ran to the door and
struggled to hold it closed while the students jumped out a
window.


Librescu was apparently shot through the door by Cho Seung-Hui,
23, a disturbed South Korean student who charged into four
classes on Monday slaying 30 strangers before turning the gun on
himself.


"I just remember looking back and seeing him (Librescu) at the
door," student Caroline Merrey, who was hospitalized after
jumping out the window, told local paper the Roanoke Times.


"I don't think I would be here if it was not him."


A number of students have e-mailed Librescu's wife, Marlena, to
describe his heroism, which is also being praised on a number of
websites such as facebook.


Other students managed to protect themselves by barricading
classroom doors, many of which did not have windows.


Student Kevin Sterne is also being hailed as a hero after he
blocked Cho from reentering the classroom by holding the door
shut, local media reported.


Sterne, an Eagle Scout, likely saved his own life by fashioning a
tourniquet with an electrical wire he pulled out of the wall
after one of the bullets ruptured an artery.


But for many, the shooting rampage was so sudden and unreal they
did not realize what was happening until they felt a bullet
pierce their skin.


"He shot the professor and then started to shoot at us. In the
blink of an eye it turned into a nightmare," South Korean student
Park Chang-Min said from his hospital bed.


"I didn't even feel the bullet hit me in the chest and arm."


Another student also didn't immediately realize he was hit.


"He was very quick in reloading so it looked like he had been
trained," said Derek O'Dell.


Dressed in black and armed with two semi-automatic pistols, Cho
had coolly chained the front doors of the building together
before he set out on his rampage.

