

US President George W. Bush on Wednesday bluntly warned that
Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir had one "last chance" to help
end violence in Darfur or face tougher US sanctions and other
punishments.


"The time for promises is over, President Beshir must act," Bush
said in remarks at the Holocaust Museum in Washington. "If
President Beshir does not meet his obligations, the United States
will act."


The US president noted that UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon was
in talks with Bashir on the deployment of peacekeepers to Darfur,
and warned: "President Beshir should take the last chance by
responding to the secretary-general's efforts and to meet the
just demands of the international community."


Bush said Khartoum must facilitate the deployment of UN support
staff as well as a UN-African Union peacekeeping force, end
support for the Janjaweed militia, reach out to rebel leaders,
and let humanitarian aid reach Darfur.


He warned that Beshir only had "a short period of time" to comply
before Washington would impose a series of economic sanctions,
seek reinforced UN sanctions, and could consider unnamed "sterner
measures" against Sudan.


Bush said the US Treasury Department would tighten economic
sanctions on Sudan, targeting 29 companies with ties to the
government in Khartoum, as well as individuals with ties to the
violence.


He said he would direct US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to
prepare a new UN Security Council resolution to apply new
sanctions against Sudan's government and human rights abusers,
expand the arms embargo against Sudan, and prevent "offensive
military flights" over Darfur.


He said Washington would begin consulting other UN Security
Council members on the language of such a resolution.


Bush also warned of "sterner measures" tied to Khartoum's alleged
use of military aircraft to pound targets in Darfur, where an
estimated 200,000 people have been killed and at least two
million more displaced since 2003.


That was when government forces including its Janjaweed Arab
militias began fighting rebel groups who had taken up arms in
protest at the distribution of resources.


Bush said he was "looking at what steps the international
community can take to deny Sudan's government the ability to fly
its military aircraft over Darfur."


"And if we do not begin see signs of good faith commitments, we
will hear calls for even sterner measures," he warned.

