

Pressure is building within the United Nations for the gradual
return of expatriate relief staff to Iraq to organise aid despite
the ongoing violence there, officials said on Wednesday.


UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, is to double its permanent presence
in Iraq to two staff while the UN's humanitarian coordination
office gained approval last week for a strategic plan outlining a
return to Iraq, aid chiefs said.


"UNHCR has already decided to upgrade our presence in Iraq. We
will have an international presence in Baghad. And we will
increase our operations in the country," UN High Commissioner for
Refugees Antonio Guterres said after a two- day conference on
Iraq's displacement crisis.


"We know there are difficulties, there are security concerns, but
there are things we can do and it's time to do our best to take
profit of all opportunities to help really the people in
distress," he told journalists.


John Holmes, the world body's new Under Secretary for
Humanitarian Affairs, told the meeting on Tuesday: "We cannot
afford to look away and duck our responsibilities. I can assure
you that the UN system will certainly not do so."


Currently the United Nations has a security ceiling on the number
of staff located in Iraq following the deadly truck bomb attack
on the world body's headquarters in Baghdad in 2003 which
prompted it to pull out of the country.


Most operations by international agencies are conducted mainly
from neighbouring Jordan.


Relief is currently delivered by local Iraqi staff or
subcontracted local agencies which know how to navigate the
sectarian divide and negotiate with tribal elders, often at huge
risk, aid workers said.


UNHCR spokeswoman Astrid van Genderen Stort told AFP that a
permanent UNHCR staffer was established in the northern city of
Erbil, while another was being appointed to liaise directly with
the Iraqi government from an office in Baghdad's secure Green
Zone.


"We would like to to have a full presence at one stage but not in
the near future," she said.


Holmes underlined that the "Strategic Framework" was "only a
first step" to boost international humanitarian action in Iraq.


The UN aid chief said there was a need to find "ways to operate
inside Iraq despite the terrible insecurity which dominates
significant parts of country."


"It means a massive new effort to persuade the people in Iraq
that whatever their past perceptions, humanitarian assistance
from the UN and others is neutral, impartial and independent of
political considerations," he explained.

