

The German government said Wednesday it aimed to see not only a
roadmap for agreeing a new European Union treaty by the end of
June but also the broad outlines of its content.


Government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm said Chancellor Angela
Merkel, the current EU president, and Czech President Vaclav
Klaus, an outspoken eurosceptic, had struck broad agreement on
the way forward in talks Tuesday.


"They agreed that at the European summit in June there needs to
be consensus not only on a roadmap but on the orientation of the
content (of the treaty)," he told a regular news conference,
referring to a June 21-22 gathering of EU leaders.


He said EU experts from the German government were touring
European capitals trying to build consensus and identify
potential obstacles.


From about mid-May, Merkel will take up the charge and meet with
her fellow European leaders on the future of the potential
treaty.


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making in
an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was rejected
in referendums in France and the Netherlands in 2005.


Wilhelm noted that Germany had set it as one of its goals for its
EU presidency, which runs to the end of June, to relaunch the
effort to approve a treaty for the bloc.


He said Merkel held three hours of "good talks based on mutual
trust" with Klaus Tuesday on institutional reform of the EU at a
castle in eastern Germany.


The Czech Republic is due to take over the EU's rotating
presidency at the start of 2009, which if the current reform
timetable is respected would give it responsibility for
finalising the ratification of a new treaty.


The former communist country which joined the EU in 2004 is one
of seven nations which have delayed indefinitely the ratification
process of a new EU constitution, along with Britain, Portugal,
Poland, Denmark, Ireland and Sweden.


Some have called for an amending treaty instead of a full-scale
constitution as an answer to the impasse because a more modest
document would not require national referendums.

