

Sri Lanka's Farveez Maharoof and Muttiah Muralitharan took eights
wickets between as Ireland were dismissed for just 77 - the sixth
lowest total in World Cup history - in their Super Eights match
at Grenada's National Stadium here Wednesday.


Maharoof's haul of four for 25 in 10 overs included a sensational
start that saw the pace bowler take three wickets in four balls
in his first over.


Off-spinner Muralitharan followed up with two wickets in three
balls in his first over on his way to a miserly return of four
for 19 in five overs.


Ireland's total - which featured five noughts - was the lowest at
this World Cup, edging Bermuda's 78 against Sri Lanka.


The 1996 champions recalled bowlers Chaminda Vaas and
Muralitharan, controversially rested for the seven-wicket defeat
by world champions Australia here Monday when they were already
through to the semi-finals, but it was Maharoof who sparked the
slide.


The first change was pulled and driven through extra-cover for
fours off his first two balls by Jeremy Bray, one of an all left-
handed top five.


However, he then switched to round the wicket, and with his next
delivery had Bray pushing a catch to Russel Arnold at short
extra-cover leaving Ireland 28 for one in the eighth over.


Two balls later Andre Botha sparred outside off-stump and was
caught behind by wicket-keeper Kumar Sangakkara for nought.


Next ball Eoin Morgan was brilliantly caught by a diving
Sangakkara for a golden duck and Ireland were 28 for three with
Maharoof on a hat-trick at the start of his second over which
Niall O'Brien survived.


But Maharoof had a fourth wicket when opener William Porterfield
(17) skied to Sanath Jayasuriya at mid-on.


Murali then struck with his second ball when Niall O'Brien was
caught behind and two balls later postman Kenny Carroll, on his
World Cup debut and the only change to the team that beat
Bangladesh by 74 runs in Barbados on Sunday, missed a full toss
and was bowled round his legs for nought.


Maharoof's fine day continued when he ran out Ireland captain
Trent Johnston for nought after the batsman pushed the ball back
and set off only for the bowler to throw down the stumps.


Kevin O'Brien and Kyle McCallan then both fell cheaply to Murali
before Dave Langford-Smith, dropped on four, hit Maharoof for
six.


Langford-Smith was last man out, lbw to Vaas for 18, the innings
finished inside 28 overs.


This was Ireland's final match of the World Cup, the surpise
package of the tournament starting the day seventh in the
standings and unable to qualify for the semi-finals.


Their score was compiled against a Sri Lanka attack missing fast
bowler Lasith Malinga, out for a third straight game with a left
ankle injury.


Sri Lanka's next match is the first semi-final in Jamaica on
Tuesday where their likely opponents will be New Zealand.

