

Fatigue may have forced Rafael Nadal to miss a session on player
grievances with ATP supremo Etienne de Villiers but the Spaniard
powered his way to an opening victory of his clay-court season at
the Monte Carlo Masters here on Wednesday.


The world number two never lost control as he dismissed Argentine
Juan Chela 6-3, 6-1 in less than 90 minutes to notch up a 63rd
straight victory on the surface.


Nadal's victory means he joins top rival Roger Federer in the
third round, though the Swiss needed two tie-break sets Tuesday
to stake his claim.


Nadal beat number one Federer in the final here a year ago to
lift a second consecutive title in the principality.


The Spaniard admitted that an early bedtime on Tuesday night left
him out of the loop as Federer, Ivan Ljubicic and respected
Spaniard Carlos Moya huddled with De Villiers for a man-to-man
chat.


Competitors are upset at calendar changes set for 2009 as well as
proposed downgrading of Monte Carlo and Hamburg events from elite
Masters status.


"I had to go back to my room and go to sleep after 11 p.m.,"
Nadal said. "I don't really know how this meeting ended.


"But all of the players are united. We all agree on what we don't
like in the calendar of 2009."


The two-time Roland Garros winner pronounced himself
"comfortable" as he played on red dirt for the first time since
last June.


"I was feeling very well, I played a good match. I could have
served a little bit better, but for the rest I'm very happy."


Nadal's record-setting run on clay began in Monte Carlo two years
ago with a first round win over France's Gael Monfils.


While Nadal plowed ahead against the 22nd-ranked Chela in
occasionally drifting light fog at the cliffside club, Nikolay
Davydenko became the first major seed to exit.


The third-seeded Russian lost 6-4, 6-7 (6/8), 6-3 to Swede Robin
Soderling.


Davydenko has thus lost twice in his only two clay contests this
season having been beaten in a Davis Cup rubber by Frenchman
Paul-Henri Mathieu.


Two more seeds stumbled.


Number four Fernando Gonzalez was upended by Russian Igor Andreev
6-2, 2-6, 6-3 while number nine Argentine David Nalbandian quit
trailing German Philipp Kohlschreiber 7-5, 4-1.


Spain's fifth-seeded Tommy Robredo overwhelmed Frenchman Arnaud
Clement 6-3, 6-2 while fast-rising Serb Novak Djokovic, seeded
sixth, put out 2004 French Open winner Gaston Gaudio.


The Argentine, a 2006 semi-finalist here, has hit the skids on
his favoured surface this season, winning just four of ten
matches. He lifted his last title at Kitzbuehel in 2005.


Djokovic, who made his top ten breakthrough in recent weeks after
an Indian Wells final and his title in Miami, said: "Today's
match was difficult for me.


"It's a first match on the clay, different surface, different
style of the game, and different movement. I had to be more
focused.


"I still cannot find exactly the game for the clay."


Czech Tomas Berdych mowed down German Benjamin Becker 6-1, 6-2 as
Spain's Juan Carlos Ferrero, champion in 2002-2003, continued his
annual spring resurgence as he crushed Chilean Nicolas Massu 6-2,
6-0.

