

The Arab League assigned Egypt and Jordan on Wednesday to
convince Israel to accept a revived peace initiative which
promises normal relations in exchange for all Arab lands captured
in 1967.


"Egypt and Jordan, the two Arab parties which retrieved their
lands (from Israel), will undertake efforts to revive the Arab
peace initiative and facilitate direct negotiations," said a
League statement read out by Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-
Faisal after a meeting of 13 Arab foreign ministers.


The two countries are the only Arab states to have signed peace
treaties with Israel and both have regular contacts with Israeli
officials.


"We reiterate our call to the government of Israel and all
Israelis to accept the peace initiative and to seize the
opportunity for a resumption of the process of direct and serious
negotiations on all fronts," said Saud, whose own government has
a public policy of no contacts with Israel.


Arab League chief Amr Mussa said other Arab states would only
join the negotiations if Israel first halted Jewish settlement
expansion in the occupied West Bank and construction of its
controversial separation barrier.


"Once Israel stops its practices in the occupied territories,
mainly lifting the sanctions on the Palestinian people, halting
the building of settlements and the building of the wall ... then
a larger working group will be formed to contact the Israeli
government," he said.


Neither Mussa nor Saud would be drawn on which other Arab states
might be willing to join the talks, although US officials have
said they would like to see Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates join any talks.


"We will discuss the countries that will form this working group
when we see how Israeli policies develop," Mussa told reporters.


"There is no such thing as free normalisation.


"But we are ready to enter into a final peace process, and to
consider the Arab- Israeli conflict a thing of the past."


Israel had rejected the Arab peace plan out of hand when it was
first adopted in 2002 but in recent months has voiced new
interest in it as a starting point for talks.


The proposals offer Israel full normalisation of relations in
return for its withdrawal from all Arab land captured in 1967,
the creation of a Palestinian state and, in a key sticking point
for Israel, the return of Palestinian refugees.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert told MPs on Wednesday that an
Arab League delegation could soon visit to discuss the blueprint.


His spokeswoman Miri Eisin said: "We will be happy to have the
opportunity to listen to the proposals in the Arab peace plan.


"Israel's position has not changed -- we will not dictate to them
what they should say to us, nor would we to anybody, and we
intend to fully set out our own proposals."


King Abdullah II of Jordan called on Israel not to squander the
opportunity to revive the peace process.


The king stressed "the need to maintain the momentum (to
relaunch) the peace process and agree on a precise timetable for
concrete results based on the two state solution and the Arab
peace initiative," Jordan's official Petra news agency said.

