

Nigeria's opposition parties threatened to boycott presidential
elections this weekend in Africa's largest democracy as an army
offensive in the troubled north on Wednesday left 25 Islamic
militants dead.


Eighteen opposition parties called for the disbanding of the
national election commission and demanded that Saturday's
presidential ballot be postponed until "transparency and
fairness" could be ensured.


The European Union voiced similar concerns.


"Following the elections of 14 April in Nigeria's 36 federal
states, there are still doubts and uncertainties concerning the
state of preparations for the federal elections on 21 April," the
German EU presidency said in a statement.


"The EU presidency calls upon the authorities responsible for
organizing these elections, as well as all participating parties,
to help ensure that the elections are peaceful, fair and
transparent," it said.


The government of outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is
stepping down after serving two terms, immediately rejected the
demand for a postponement.


"As a government, President Olusegun Obasanjo is committed to
ensuring that election goes on as scheduled on Saturday. And more
importantly, that the hand- over date of May 29 is respected,"
Information Minister Frank Nweke said.


"At this moment, I believe there is absolutely no basis for
anyone to begin to call for the postponement of elections. From
the reports I received...I believe (last weekend's provincial)
elections went reasonably well," he told AFP.


The opposition parties also called for the annulment of last
Saturday's regional polls, which were slammed as fraud-marred by
international observers and triggered violence that left at least
20 dead.


If these conditions are not fulfilled, the parties "shall
consider not participating in the (presidential) election," they
said in a statement late Tuesday.


Nigerian troops on Wednesday shot dead 25 heavily armed members
of an Islamist group that had attacked a police station the
previous day in the northern Muslim-majority city of Kano,
killing 12 policemen and a civilian.


"I understand that our troops killed at least 25 members of the
criminal group terrorising Kano," said army spokesman Colonel Ayo
Olaniyan.


An AFP correspondent saw several hundred residents fleeing the
fighting.


"The entire place is under bombardment. That is why we have to
flee," a resident told AFP.


Later in the afternoon Kano's military commander Kenneth Vigo
said the group had been dislodged from the premises they were
occupying and were being pushed towards the river banks from
where "there was no escape".


The Islamist attack on the police station was believed to have
been a revenge attack for the killing of a radical Muslim cleric
and two of his followers in a mosque in a Kano suburb last week.


Tensions have been mounting ahead of Saturday's presidential
vote, which is expected to usher in the first civilian-to
civilian government handover in Nigeria since the oil-rich west
African nation gained independence from Britain in 1960.


The main challengers to the ruling party candidate, Umaru
Yar'Adua, are Vice President Atiku Abubakar and General Muhamadu
Buhari, a former military ruler.


The election commission had excluded Abubakar, President
Obasanjo's estranged deputy, from the initial list of approved
candidates following corruption allegations.


But it was forced to reverse its decision after the Supreme Court
said it  had overstretched its powers.


The move was a setback for outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo,
who has been trying to ensure an easy ride for Yar'Adua.


The regional elections last weekend were criticised as fraudulent
by the European Union, the United States and rights watchdogs
such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.

