

Lyon's six-in-a-row French league title celebrations were put on
hold Wednesday as they were held to a goalless draw at home by
midtable Rennes.


The draw nevertheless as good as clinched it for the champions as
they now have an 18-point advantage on second-placed Toulouse
with six games to play.


Gerard Houllier's side would have to lose all six remaining games
and Toulouse to win them by big margins to cause an upset.


Last year nearly to the day, they became the first side to win
five times in succession.


But to be mathematically certain of being crowned champions again
Houllier's side needed a win.


"Even with a draw I consider that the title will be ours
mathematically. If the others don't want to party I will,"
Houllier had said before the game.


But instead of partying with their fans at their Gerland Stadium
his team settled for a dour draw which drew whistles from the
crowd at half time.


Lyon largely dominated but lacked the conviction to tackle the
Brittany side's defence despite the isolated efforts of Czech
striker Milan Baros.


There were few real efforts on goal apart from a freekick from
substitute Kim Kallstrom after 76 minutes diverted out by Rennes
goalie Simon Pouplin.


Lyon's failure to wrap up the title in style follows a difficult
second half of the season after their runaway success before the
winter break.


Rennes, sitting ninth, still have the incentive of finishing the
season well and grabbing a qualifying spot for one of the
European club competitions as they sit five points off third-
placed Lens.


In Wednesday's second tie, Bordeaux kept their hopes of playing
Champions League football next season very much alive as they
crushed struggling Nancy 3-0 at their Chaban-Delmas Stadium.


A first half double from Marouane Chamakh after 18 and 43 minutes
put  Bordeaux on their way with Argentine Fernando Cavenaghi
claiming their third after 54 mintues.


Bordeaux, who had only scored one goal in their previous three
matches, are now just one point behind Lens who they host after a
visit to Saint-Etienne.

