

Fossil hunters in the United States have found the world's oldest
known tree, a palm-like giant of a species called a Wattieza that
lived some 380 million years ago.


Their discovery resolves a riddle that has dogged paleo-botanists
for 137 years and sheds light on how forests slowly yet
powerfully sculpted Earth's landscape, the team report in
Thursday's Nature, the weekly British science journal.


In June 2004, Linda VanAller Hernick and Frank Mannolini of the
New York State Museum found the fossilised crown of a massive
tree in a small sandstone quarry in New York that had already
been a fruitful site for retrieving fossils of plants and
arthropods.


Racing against the clock -- for the quarry was about to be dug
out to provide stone for road repair -- the pair used an
industrial saw, a pickup truck and a manual engine hoist to
extract the 200-kilo (440-pound) specimen.


After gaining authorisation to continue collecting at the site,
the following year they dug out a tree trunk of the same species,
extracting it fragment by fragment and reassembling it like a
eight-metre (26-feet) -long fossilised jigsaw puzzle.


Eschewing the traditional buttoned-down prose of scientific
journals, the team describe the specimens in their paper as quite
simply "spectacular."


Pieces of Wattieza have been found before, but the new find
confirms its striking similarity to the modern tree fern.


It had a skinny palm-like trunk with, at its head, a spreading
tuft of fronds -- a system that cleverly conserved resources to
help promote vertical growth so that the tree could pierce the
forest canopy and get sunlight.


It had only a small root system, reproduced through spores, and
probably reached around 10 metres (32.5 feet) in height when
mature.


The Wattieza hails from the Middle Devonian period, from 397 to
385 million years ago, which was a critical time in the evolution
of early land plants.


The Middle Devonian was an incubator era, giving rise to a whole
range of reproductive strategies among plants and the precursors
of leaves for photosynthesis.


When these specimens of Wattieza were alive, terrestrial life in
that area was limited to small arthropods, a class of life that
includes insects, spiders and crustaceans.


"The trees preceded the dinosaurs by 140 million years," one of
the authors, palaeontologist Ed Landing, said. "There was nothing
flying, no reptiles and no amphibians."


The fossils provide the first solid evidence about the overall
shape and size of early trees and could help explain how forests
came to dominate the land surface -- a feature that is visible
even today.


"In forming the first forests, (trees) must have really changed
the Earth system as a whole, creating new types of micro-
environments for smaller plants and insects, storing large
amounts of carbon and bringing the soil together," said fellow
author Christopher Berry, a lecture in ancient botany at Cardiff
University, Britain.


Until now, the record for arboreal antiquity had been held by a
specimen of Archaeopteris, a close relative of seed plants that
flourished during the Late Devonian period, around 385 to 359
million years ago.


Archaeopteris was a very different beast from Wattieza. Conifer-
like, it had leafy twigs, a large root systems and long-lived
branches that grew from the side of the trunk.


The quarry where Wattieza was found is just 16 kilometers (10
miles) from Gilboa, a name that has special resonance for
botanists.


There, in 1870, workers were blasting for rock to repair roads
damaged by a flood when they came across fossil tree stumps.


These stumps have been widely cited as being evidence of Earth's
oldest forest, but they always defeated attempts to find out
more, as the important upper portions of the trees were missing.


"Now the riddle is solved and we know what was out there," the
museum quoted Hernick as saying.

