

The US Supreme Court backtracked on abortion rights for the first
time in more than a generation Wednesday, upholding a federal law
restricting access to a rare but controversial late-term abortion
procedure.


The bellwether ruling is a major victory for conservative forces
in the United States, which have battled for decades to reverse
the landmark 1973 Roe vs. Wade law establishing a woman's legal
right to terminate an unwanted pregnancy.


The narrow five-to-four decision came in a case challenging the
constitutionality of a separate five-year-old law seeking to
criminalize what critics call "partial birth abortion."


US President George W. Bush hailed the decision, which he said
affirms the "culture of life" espoused by many Americans.


"The partial-birth abortion ban, which an overwhelming bipartisan
majority in Congress passed and I signed into law, represents a
commitment to building a culture of life in America," Bush said,
adding that years-long efforts to outlaw the "abhorrent
procedure" reflect "the compassion and humanity of America."


"The Supreme Court's decision is an affirmation of the progress
we have made over the past six years in protecting human dignity
and upholding the sanctity of life," he said.


"We will continue to work for the day when every child is
welcomed in life and protected in law."


The controversial late-term procedure, only carried out when the
fetus poses a major danger to the mother's health, was banned by
the US Congress in 2003, after lawmakers concluded it was not
medically necessary.


Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for the high court majority,
wrote that the ban does not impose an "undue burden" since there
were other options, such as making sure the fetus was not intact
when it had to be extracted.


US anti-abortion activists hailed the watershed ruling, and
expressed hope that the decision eventually will pave the way to
an outright ban on all abortions across the country.


"The time is now right to launch aggressive legal challenges
across America to abortion on demand," said Troy Newmann, of the
anti-abortion group Operation Rescue.


"This is the first legal crack in the crumbling Roe v. Wade
foundation, and is the first, necessary step toward banning the
horrific practice of abortion in this nation."


For their part, "pro-choice" interests said they were fearful
about the future of access to abortion, although they couched
their unease in the narrow terms of Wednesday's decision.


Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in a sharply worded dissent, called
Wednesday's decision "alarming."


"It tolerates, indeed applauds, federal intervention to ban
nationwide a procedure found necessary and proper in certain
cases," she said.


"For the first time since Roe, the Court blesses a prohibition
with no exception safeguarding a woman's health," Ginsburg wrote.


US Senator Barbara Boxer, a staunch pro-choice advocate echoed
that alarm.


"As a result of today's ruling, the health of women who have
dangerous pregnancies is now in deep jeopardy," the California
lawmaker said.


"Women who are in need of this banned procedure will be denied
it, even if they risk losing their fertility, becoming paralyzed
or sustaining organ damage" while having a less safe procedure,
Boxer said.


The ruling is a reversal of a Supreme Court stance in a similar
case several years ago. In 2000 the high court, by a vote of five
to four, invalidated efforts by the state of Nebraska to outlaw
the same type of abortion, because the conservative Midwestern
state had not made allowances for the health of the mother.


But Wednesday's decision reflects Bush's appointments to the US
high court of two conservative justices who are likely to
radically alter the outcome of narrowly decided Supreme Court
rulings for years to come.


The justice who cast the swing vote on the abortion case of seven
years ago -- moderate Sandra Day O'Connor, a long-time champion
of the pro-choice views -- has since been replaced by Justice
Samuel Alito, a hardline conservative.


Meanwhile, chief Justice John Roberts replaced the late William
Rehnquist, but in that instance one conservative was swapped out
for another.


"Today's decision justifies our faith in the new composition of
the court," Newmann said.


According to estimates, around 10 percent of the roughly 1.2
million annual voluntary abortions take place after the third
month of pregnancy; the method in question affects a few thousand
of those.

