

The Arab League on Wednesday assigned Egypt and Jordan to
convince Israel to accept a revived peace initiative which
promises full relations in exchange for Arab land captured in
1967.


"Egypt and Jordan, the two Arab parties which retrieved their
lands (from Israel), will undertake efforts to revive the Arab
peace initiative and facilitate direct negotiations," said a
league statement read out by Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-
Faisal.


The two countries, which have signed a peace deal with Israel,
will seek to explain the 2002 Arab peace initiative to Israel's
political parties, government, unions and intellectuals.


Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert on Wednesday told the Israeli
parliament that an Arab League delegation could soon visit Israel
to discuss the initiative.


But Arab League Secretary General Amr Mussa said a larger Arab
delegation -- including countries who did not sign a peace treaty
with Israel -- would only negotiate after certain conditions had
been met.


"Once Israel stops its practices in the occupied territories,
mainly lifting the sanctions on the Palestinian people, halting
the building of settlements and the building of the wall ... then
a larger working group will be formed to contact the Israeli
government," he said, reading the statement.


"We reiterate our call to the government of Israel and all
Israelis to accept the peace initiative and to seize the
opportunity for a resumption of the process of direct and serious
negotiations on all fronts," Saud said.


Foreign ministers from thirteen Arab countries met Wednesday at
the Arab League to discuss how to reactivate their 2002 peace
proposal, which Israel originally rejected out of hand, but has
since expressed more interest in.


The Arab plan promises normalised relations in exchange for Arab
land captured in 1967, the creation of a Palestinian state and
the return of refugees.


Jordan's King Abdullah II on Wednesday called Olmert to stress
the importance of keeping the peace process momentum going and
drawing up a timetable for a comprehensive solution.


Abdullah stressed "the need to maintain the momentum (to
relaunch) the peace process and agree on a precise timetable for
concrete results based on the two state solution and the Arab
peace initiative," the official Petra agency said.

