

Ethiopia must withdraw its troops from Somalia immediately or
face an all-out war that "no army" could resist, three senior
Somali leaders warned here on Wednesday.


The three, including top Islamist leader Sheikh Sharif Sheikh
Ahmed and Hussein Aidid, who holds a post in Somalia's
government, were meeting in the Eritrean capital for talks.


Aidid said Somalis will unite against the "brutal occupation" of
Ethiopian forces which earlier this year helped the government's
armed forces wrest control of much of Somalia from an Islamist
movement.


"Up until now we are using dialogue to remove them but if they
refuse to cooperate ... we will set everything aside to remove
the Ethiopians ourselves," Aidid told reporters.


Sporadic fighting has continued between Ethiopian troops and
insurgents in Mogadishu since government troops returned to the
capital.


The three leaders, who shared a stage under a Somali map
emblazoned with a dove and the logo "Somalia for Somalis", warned
that the situation in the war-torn nation would deteriorate if
Ethiopia failed to withdraw.


"Less than 10 percent of our forces are on the ground against the
Ethiopians. No army, I can tell you that, can stop what is coming
up," Aidid said.


Aidid, who holds the post of deputy prime minister and housing
minister and is a member of the Hawiye clan which holds sway in
the capital Mogadishu, said  the three leaders only wanted to
work for peace in Somalia.


"The aim is to create dialogue among our people after 16 years of
civil war to act as a platform for reconciliation," he said.


Despite his government posts, Aidid has opened opposed the
presence of Ethiopian troops in Somalia.


The third leader, Sheikh Sharif Hassan Aden, was ousted from his
post as parliament speaker in January. He was accused of being
too close to the Islamists.


Eritrea, which has been accused of backing the islamists, has
called for Ethiopia to withdraw its troops. Asmara rejects the
accusations.


Analysts have expressed fears that Ethiopia and Eritrea, still at
odds over their unresolved 1998-2000 border conflict, may fight a
proxy war in Somalia.


Somalia has lacked an effective central government since the
ousting of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 touched off
a bloody power struggle that exploded into inter-clan warfare.


More than 14 attempts to restore a functional government in
Somalia have since failed.

