

Two big British labor syndicates and a North American guild
announced steps Wednesday to create the first transatlantic trade
union to help workers get "an equal footing" with global
companies.


Amicus, the Transport and General Workers Union (T&GWU) and
the United Steel Workers (USW) of America said they would begin
"a formal process" to merge the labor groups and forge "the
world's biggest union" in June with a round of talks in Britain.


The unification is expected to be finalized within a year.


"Workers in this new century need a transatlantic union to tame
the exploitation of global corporations, international banks and
world trade organizations," USW president Leo Gerard said as the
groups signed an alliance in the Canadian capital at a policy
convention attended by 700 Steelworkers.


"The time for global unionism has arrived."


The new union would represent over 3.4 million members in the
United States, Canada, Britain and Ireland, according to a joint
statement.


"It would be the world's biggest union and would be expected to
attract other union organizations throughout the world into
membership," the statement said.


"One of the main reasons for the merger between Amicus and the
T&GWU, was our desire to create an international trade union
that would be able to deal with multinational companies on an
equal footing and organize working people in ever-greater
numbers," said Amicus general secretary Derek Simpson.


"Multinational companies are pushing down wages and conditions
for workers the world over by playing one national workforce off
against another. The only beneficiaries of globalization are the
exploiters of working people and the only way working people can
resist this is to band together."


Amicus is already finalizing a merger with the T&GWU in
Britain to be called Unite, and will include some 2.1 million
members. The USW represents about 1.2 million active and retired
members in the United States and Canada.


The three each represent workers in 12 sectors of their
respective economies, and share "a common vision and common
problems," said Gerard, citing job security, pensions, healthcare
and deindustrialization of their countries. Simpson told
reporters: "I saw the same situation wherever I traveled, I
listened to working people with the same problems."


But improving working conditions has become "increasingly
difficult within the confines of national boundaries when you're
dealing with the actions and events created by multinational
companies," he said. "This is a first step."


T&GWU general secretary Tony Woodley said in a statement:
"This is an historic step for global trade unionism, and will
help working people to look even the biggest employer in the
eye."


The new multinational union will develop a common approach to
collective bargaining, and provide materials and financing for
"solidarity projects" in Columbia, Africa, China and India.


Leo Gerard told AFP "all multinationals" will be targeted.


But aluminum giant Alcoa, now in talks with workers in Australia
and Mexico for standardized work and pay, is likely be the first
to feel the full force of the combined union, he said.


"We're not trying to restrain trade, it's to restrain repression
of working people," Gerard said.


Obstacles to be overcome include how to fund the new organization
with different rules in various jurisdictions, legal and
administrative issues, choosing a board, and regularly
communicating across the Atlantic Ocean, he said.


Trying to preserve the rich heritage associated with the Amicus
and Steelworkers brands could be problematic too when choosing a
new name.


But, union leaders said they have "100 percent support" from
their members for the consolidation. "We live in one world and we
work in one syndicate," Gerard said.

