

Two big British labor syndicates and a North American guild
announced steps Wednesday to create the first transatlantic trade
union to help workers get "an equal footing" with globalized
companies.


Amicus, the Transport and General Workers Union (T&GWU) and
the United Steel Workers (USW) of America announced the beginning
of "a formal process" to merge the labor groups and forge "the
world's biggest union."


"Workers in this new century need a transatlantic union to tame
the exploitation of global corporations, international banks and
world trade organizations," USW president Leo Gerard said as the
groups signed an alliance in the Canadian capital.


"The time for global unionism has arrived."


The new union would represent over 3.4 million members in the US,
Canada, Britain and Ireland, according to a statement issued by
the groups.


"It would be the world's biggest union and would be expected to
attract other union organizations throughout the world into
membership," the statement said.


"One of the main reasons for the merger between Amicus and the
T&GWU, was our desire to create an international trade union
that would be able to deal with multinational companies on an
equal footing and organize working people in ever-greater
numbers," said Amicus general secretary Derek Simpson.


"Multinational companies are pushing down wages and conditions
for workers the world over by playing one national workforce off
against another. The only beneficiaries of globalization are the
exploiters of working people and the only way working people can
resist this is to band together."


Amicus is already finalizing a merger with the T&GWU in
Britain to be called Unite, and will include some 2.1 million
members. The USW represents about 1.2 million active and retired
members in the United States and Canada.


The aim of the merger is to create "greater international
solidarity and cooperation to better represent workers against
the threats posed by global capital," the unions said in a
statement.


T&GWU general secretary Tony Woodley said in a
statement:"This is an historic step for global trade unionism,
and will help working people to look even the biggest employer in
the eye."

