

Seamer Farveez Maharoof gave Sri Lanka a World Cup semi-final
selection headache on Wednesday when he claimed four victims in
his team's Super Eights eight- wicket win over Ireland.


Maharoof, playing in the side because of an injury to Lasith
Malinga while Dilhara Fernando was rested, made a strong case to
retain his place for next Tuesday's semi-final in Jamaica with a
blistering performance with the ball.


He also ran out Ireland skipper Trent Johnston as Sri Lanka
bowled out their opponents for just 77 before wrapping up victory
comfortbaly before the lunch break at the Grenada National
Stadium.


"It's a good headache to have," said Sri Lanka captain Mahela
Jayawardene when quizzed if the 22-year-old Maharoof would start
the semi-final which is likely to be against New Zealand.


"Everyone in this squad has put their hands up when it comes to
performing. It would be a worse headache if we were not
performing.


"We have acheived our goal of making the semi-finals. When we
left Sri Lanka we knew we had to concentrate hard, we knew we had
the talent to make the last four but we just had to execute our
plans. That was the hardest thing."


Maharoof finished with four for 25 in 10 overs, a spell that saw
the pace bowler take three wickets in four balls in his first
over.


Muttiah Muralitharan also took four wickets as Ireland were
dismissed for just 77 - the sixth lowest total in the
competition's history.


The result was a disappointing end for Ireland's debut World Cup
campaign which had peaked with famous wins over Pakistan and
Bangladesh but had also seen a nine-wicket defeat to champions
Australia.


But they at least had the comfort of knowing that their
performances had put them into 12th place in the international
one-day rankings.


"It was another tough game," said Ireland captain Trent Johnston.
"But Sri Lanka showed why they are one of the tournament
favourites."


The captain now wants to see Ireland build on their achievements
here.


"The goal when we came here was to show to people that we can
play cricket away from our own backyard. I hope people won't
judge us on our performances against Australia and Sri Lanka."


Sri Lanka opener Sanath Jayasuriya, a veteran of the 1996 World
Cup winning team, paid tribute to his team's bowlers.


"Vaas and Maharoof bowled well up front and later on Murali
finished off the other parts," said Jayasuriya.


"Maharoof is a good all-rounder and he did really well. He is
coming on and that is good for us."


Jayasuriya said he was pleased with his own performance after he
hit 24 not out as Sri Lanka reached their target with a full 40
overs remaining.


"What I want is to perform for my country. I wanted to do my bit
and win the game," said the 37-year-old.


"We are thinking about the semi-finals and if we do our basics
right we have got a chance. Nothing worries us about the Jamaican
pitch. If it seams and bounces we have the bowlers to deal with
it, and our batsmen would enjoy it too."

