

The United States expressed "real concern" Wednesday over a UN
report that Sudan's government is violating an arms embargo by
using airplanes disguised as United Nations craft to carry out
bombings in Darfur.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack indicated the report,
leaked by US newspapers Wednesday, could speed up US
consideration of imposing sanctions on Sudan over its refusal to
allow a 20,000-strong UN peacekeeping force into Darfur.


"It gives cause for real concern about the actions of the
Sudanese government in breaking the arms embargo," McCormack said
of the report.


"It's a positive thing that this report is coming out because it
is important information that will inform the debate about what
diplomatic next steps should be taken concerning Darfur," he
said.


"We're entering into an important phase of what next steps in the
diplomacy concerning Sudan and Darfur," he said.


President George W. Bush warned Sudan Wednesday that it had just
one "last chance" to accept the force or face the sanctions.


The confidential UN report also said Sudan was violating UN
Security Council resolutions by flying arms into the region.


The New York Times, which ran the story, published photographs
from the UN report of a Sudanese armed forces plane. UN
investigators said it had been whitewashed and had "UN" stenciled
on its wing and bombs laid out beside it.


It said that this and other planes were being disguised and used
to bomb villages and transport cargo in Darfur, where bloody
civil violence has caused a humanitarian crisis.


More than 200,000 people are estimated to have been killed and at
least two million others displaced in Darfur since 2003. That was
when government forces including its Janjaweed Arab militias
began fighting rebel groups who had taken up arms in protest at
the distribution of resources.


The release of the report came after Sudan on Monday agreed
following months of delays to let 3,000 UN personnel plus
helicopters into Darfur to support under- equipped African Union
forces trying to stabilize the region.


The UN report, released by a diplomat from a Security Council
member nation, said forces on the rebels' side were also guilty
of violating UN resolutions and humanitarian standards. It called
for a tightening of a Security Council arms embargo on Sudan, the
newspaper said.

