

The UN Security Council will begin talks Thursday on a new
resolution on Sudan including seeking sanctions against those to
blame for violence in Darfur, Prime Minister Tony Blair said
Wednesday.


The new resolution will also seek to pressure the Khartoum
government to allow international forces into the violence-
scarred Sudanese region, he said, calling the situation there a
"scandal" which must be stopped.


"Tomorrow the United States and the United Kingdom are going to
begin discussions with others in the Security Council on a new
United Nations Security Council resolution on Sudan," he said.


"What is happening in Sudan at the moment is unacceptable, it is
appalling and it is a scandal for the international community,"
he added, speaking to reporters at his Downing Street office.


He said the new resolution "will include measures against
individuals who are engaged in violence or are responsible for
authorising it.


"It will include measures that allow us far better air monitoring
of this violence and also to make sure that we do everything we
can to get the agreement of the Sudanese government to the
force...coming into the country in order to do the peace keeping
and the stabilising that is necessary."


He said the Sudanese government, which has stalled for months on
the deployment of UN personnel, could still head off sanctions.


"At any point if the Sudanese government and President Beshir
want to stop this process, they can by doing those things that
they should have been doing a long time ago.


"If they do that, then this process can be completed but if they
don't, it is our intention to make sure that this UN Security
Council resolution is tabled and voted upon.


"I hope that very clear message gets to the Sudanese government
today," he said.


And he added: "We have waited and waited. We have tried diplomacy
and negotiation again and again with the Sudanese government and
they have to get the message that the international community
will not allow the scandal that is Darfur to continue."

