

Nissan plans to sell its first clean-diesel cars in the United
States in three years to meet demand for more environmentally
friendly vehicles, the firm's top executive Carlos Ghosn said
Wednesday.


Ghosn, president and chief executive of Nissan as well as French
carmaker Renault, told an audience of executives here that Nissan
is also racing to expand its diesel lineup in Europe and China.


Ghosn said Nissan's Maxima nameplate would be its first car to be
fueled by a clean diesel engine in the United States and that
Nissan intends to supply it to car dealers by 2010.


"It's a kind of bet you are making that fuel standards will
tighten and fuel costs will climb," Ghosn said in explaining
Nissan's bid to boost its green credentials with US consumers.


He said the engine's technology will be jointly developed by
Nissan and Renault, which each own stakes in one another, and
that the clean diesel engines will initially be built in Europe.


However, if sales take off, Ghosn said the engine building could
be moved to the United States. He declined to say what price tag
would be placed on the diesel Maxima.


The seasoned auto chief, credited with turning around Nissan in
recent years, said it's clear that "consumers want
environmentally-friendly cars."


Ghosn, talking to an audience at the Council on Foreign
Relations, said US manufacturers had so far ignored the potential
market for cars priced under 10,000 dollars.


"We are looking at it seriously," Ghosn said of the potential
niche, adding that he would not be suprised to see an Indian or
Chinese firm enter the US market with models priced under 10,000
dollars.


Ghosn said fears about climate change and technological advances
were reforming the global car industry, and that Nissan and
Renault were driving to build strong partnerships with Indian and
Chinese manufacturers.


"Alliances work, but they are very difficult to manage," he
cautioned, saying that international auto mergers can be very
tricky to pull off.


Ghosn said he favors building partnership ventures with foreign
carmakers instead, rather than attempting to take them over.


Renault does not currently sell cars in the US market.

