

Iran has assembled some 1,300 centrifuges at a key underground
nuclear plant and has started to feed them with the uranium gas
necessary for enriching uranium, the UN atomic watchdog said
Wednesday.


Iran has eight cascades of 164 centrifuges each at a heavily-
bunkered underground facility in Natanz and "some UF6 (uranium
hexafluoride) is being fed," a diplomat said.


The diplomat was quoting to AFP a confidential document the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) sent Wednesday to the
35 member states of its board of governors.


The IAEA had agreed to "a combination of unannounced inspections
and containment and surveillance measures," the diplomat said,
adding that the IAEA had backed off from its insistence that
cameras had to be installed to monitor the centrifuges.


Earlier, diplomats told AFP that the IAEA still had adequate
access in verifying Tehran does not seek nuclear weapons, even
without the surveillance cameras.


Putting in the cameras was a key demand but a deal struck with
Iran gives IAEA inspectors the right to make unannounced on-site
inspections at the Natanz uranium enrichment plant, the diplomats
said.


"For the moment, this is alright," said one diplomat, who said
IAEA inspectors will be allowed to maintain a more permanent
presence in Iran while up to now they have only gone in for
specific visits. He did not elaborate.


At stake is monitoring an Iranian nuclear programme which the
United States fears hides the secret development of atomic
weapons and which already has led to two rounds of UN Security
Council sanctions against the Islamic Republic.


Iran started last week to feed the 1,300 centrifuges in Natanz
with the uranium gas that is the feedstock for enriching uranium,
said a second diplomat who like others asked not to be named due
to the confidentiality of the information.


Enriched uranium can be used for fuel for civilian nuclear
reactors or, in highly refined form, the explosive core of atom
bombs.


"Iranian nuclear official Mohammad Saeedi (deputy head of Iran's
atomic energy organization) met with Ollie Heinonen (IAEA head of
safeguards) in Vienna in early April and they agreed that cameras
would not be put into the underground hall in Natanz," the second
diplomat said.


The diplomat said the agreement was to be valid for "a few
months."


Heinonen had in March sent the Iranians a letter giving them
until the end of that month to allow surveillance cameras at
Natanz, with failure to do this possibly leading to further UN
action against Iran.


But the diplomat said the IAEA would now be allowed frequent,
unannounced visits, although he warned that "there could be
problems with this."


"Unannounced inspections have been agreed. Such inspections
obviate the need for cameras for now," said the diplomat.


IAEA officials refused to comment.


Iran insists its nuclear programme is a peaceful effort to
generate electricity.


IAEA chief Mohamed ElBaradei had reported on February 22 that
Iran was at the underground site in Natanz spinning centrifuges
empty, without uranium feedstock gas, in two 164-centrifuge
production lines, and was finishing installing two other similar
cascades, also totalling 328 centrifuges.


ElBaradei said then that cameras would be needed if Iran were
running more than 500 centrifuges.


But the second diplomat said that "when 3,000 centrifuges are
running then unannounced visits plus cameras would be required."


Such a number of centrifuges could make in less than a year
enough enriched uranium for an atomic bomb.


ElBaradei said in Riyadh last week that Iran is still in the
early stages of creating a plant to enrich uranium.


"Iran is pressing ahead with building the Natanz reactor to have
54,000 centrifuges to enrich uranium. Now it is still at the
hundreds stage," he said in what appeared to be a downplaying of
Iran's progress.


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had announced last week
that the Islamic republic's controversial uranium enrichment work
had reached an "industrial scale," a stage that requires at least
3,000 centrifuges, but did not say how many centrifuges were
working.


Russia, which is building Iran's first nuclear power plant, as
well as other nations have cast doubts on whether Iran has
reached such an industrial stage.

