

British Prime Minister Tony Blair insisted Wednesday there was no
prospect of reviving a European Union constitutional treaty,
saying progress had to be made on a new way forward at the bloc's
June summit.


Speaking after talks with his Hungarian counterpart, Blair said
it was possible to reach agreement between the 27 member states
on streamlining the EU's rulebook, but the bloc needed to hammer
out the basic details quickly.


The EU "has to have rules that are modern and up to date so that
Europe works more effectively for dealing with the problems of
our people," such as the economy, immigration, organised crime
and the environment, Blair said.


"We need a more effective set of European institutions for the
future, that is absolutely right.


"The difficulty is that I think, following the 'no' votes in the
referendums in France and Holland, we cannot bring back the
constitutional treaty and hope to get agreement on it.


"We should try to get the elements of any new rules agreed at the
June council.


"It is important that we make progress on this otherwise we will
go into a very, very, long, long debate that will I think not
necessarily advance Europe very much further, and divert us from
dealing with issues that are really important."


Blair was speaking at his Downing Street office at a press
conference alongside his Hungarian counterpart Ferenc Gyurcsany
following their discussions.


A constitutional treaty aimed at streamlining decision-making in
an enlarged EU has been in political limbo since it was rejected
in referendums in France and the Netherlands in 2005.


On Monday, Blair backed a Dutch proposal for the EU to push for
changes to existing treaties rather than a whole new
constitution, an idea aimed at easing popular fears of a European
superstate trampling over national constitutions.


"Both of these countries are looking for a very sufficient
compromise -- not looking for an excuse, but looking for the
solution," said Gyurcsany.


"We need a very similar approach by some other countries."


An agreement could be ratified EU-wide by 2009 "if we find some
partners like Great Britain and Holland with some innovation how
we can resolve this challenge," he said.


Germany holds the six-month rotating EU presidency.


Berlin said earlier it aimed to see not only a roadmap for
agreeing a new EU treaty by the end of June but also the broad
outlines of its content.

