

Under-pressure West Indies captain Brian Lara has conceded that
he has been hurt by every World Cup defeat during his illustrious
one-day career lasting more than a decade.


The stylish left-handed batsman will bow out of one-day cricket
after the ongoing tournament in the Caribbean as a player who was
never part of a World Cup-winning side.


Lara's West Indians failed to qualify for the semi-finals after
losing all of their first four Super Eights matches, leaving
thousands of their fans disappointed. They still have two points,
with matches against Bangladesh and England to go.


"Every World Cup exit has been among the low points of my one-day
career whether it has been in 1992, 1996, 1999, 2003 and now,"
Lara said when asked to sum up his one-day career.


Lara played his first World Cup in Australia in 1992, two years
after making his one-day debut against Pakistan at Karachi. He
soon established himself as one of the best batsmen of his era.


He had figured in four World Cups before the ongoing edition and
his last chance of winning the coveted prize ended even before
his team had completed their Super Eights engagements.


But Lara had the satisfaction of leading his team remarkably well
in the ICC Champions Trophy, winning the title in 2004 in England
and then finishing runners-up in India last year.


"I had some pretty good moments in one-day cricket, but I think
winning the 2004 Champions Trophy definitely stands out," said
Lara, the top West Indies run- getter with 10,354 in 297 matches
with 19 centuries.


Lara said he was in no hurry to make any decision on his future.


"I have spent 34 years with cricket bat in my hand. I am not
going to make any hasty decision on my career whether remaining
in cricket or out of cricket. I'll relax a bit before I decide
anything," said the West Indies captain, 37.


"Things are not running away. Cricket, obviously, is going to be
here. It was here before I arrived and it'll be here long after I
leave."


Lara admitted his team had not performed to their potential in
the tournament, especially after qualifying for the Super Eights
with an all-win record in the opening round.


The West Indies beat Pakistan, debutants Ireland and Zimbabwe in
group matches, but lost their way in the second round as they had
yet to win a game.


"It is important we do start our second round. We haven't started
it as yet and want to finish it on a high. It's very important
for us to do something at this stage and the guys are fully aware
of this," he said.


Lara is among one of the senior batsmen under-performing in the
tournament, having scored 218 runs in seven matches with just one
half-century.


"We have disappointed ourselves and our people. Everybody wants
reasons and explanations, but I think this is not the forum to
discus these," said Lara.


"It's not the time for condemnation or anything like that. It's
time for constructive criticism and to ensure we build something
for the future. It's time to concentrate on the next few games
and next tour."


The West Indies will meet Bangladesh here on Thursday and England
on Saturday.

