

Britain announced an inquiry Wednesday into claims that body
parts from nuclear power plant workers who died of cancer were
removed and tested for radiation without their families' consent.


Trade and Industry Secretary Alistair Darling announced the move
in an emergency statement to parliament, saying there were 65
cases between 1962 and 1991 where tissue and organs had been
extracted for analysis.


He appointed Michael Redfern, a top lawyer who led a 2001 inquiry
into an organ retention scandal at Alder Hey children's hospital
in Liverpool, north-west England, to investigate.


There, hearts and other organs were harvested from the bodies of
more than 850 babies who died between 1988 and 1996 without the
knowledge or consent of families.


Darling's announcement came after trades unions flagged concerns
that organs had been removed without next of kin giving
permission -- a practice banned last year amid widespread concern
about the Alder Hey case.


Most of the cases relate to workers at one of the world's biggest
nuclear sites, Sellafield in north-west England. A handful came
from other English plants, including Aldermaston in the south.


The minister said that the probe was necessary because medical
records do not reveal whether families gave consent or why the
examinations were carried out.


The records are held by British Nuclear Fuels Limited (BNFL), the
partly state- owned holding company for British Nuclear Group,
which manages the country's nuclear sites.


"Some of these cases date back 45 years. It is simply not
possible therefore today to be sure whether or not the procedures
were carried out properly," Darling told lawmakers.


"The information held by BNFL is necessarily limited and a fuller
investigation is therefore necessary.


"I believe that it is necessary to establish why these
examinations were carried out and whether or not the next of kin
were informed and consented to this analysis."


Darling said that, in 56 of the 65 cases, tests were done under
the aegis of post-mortem examinations or inquests by coroners.


Five were made under instruction from proper authorities, such as
family solicitors, while in four other cases, there is no record
of instruction or consent on file.


The body parts were destroyed in the testing process and none
remain in existence.


In a statement, BNFL said it would give its "full support and
cooperation" to the investigation, adding it had set up a
helpline for those affected by the claims.


It is believed that none of the workers had died from radiation
poisoning and the body parts were tested for the effects of long-
term radiation exposure, the Times newspaper reported.


The revelations provoked a horrified reaction from unions and
opposition politicians.


Paul Noon, general secretary of Prospect, which represents
scientists and engineers, said organ removal without consent
"should not have happened" whatever the motives.


"Removal of organs from deceased radiation workers without
consent would be ethically, morally and possibly legally wrong,"
he added.


Responding to Darling's comments, Charles Hendry, energy
spokesman for the main opposition Conservatives, said he was
"shocked and incredulous" at the news.


Sellafield is no stranger to controversy -- some locals have long
claimed a link between the plant and clusters of leukaemia
nearby, although scientists disagree on whether there is a
connection.


Environmental campaign group Greenpeace said that there have been
some 21 incidents of radiological releases at Sellafield, which
employs 10,000 people, since 1950.

