

Latin America's economies are less vulnerable to sudden
disruption than in previous decades but social and economic
inequalities pose a growing concern, the World Economic Forum
(WEF) said on Wednesday.


"Perhaps the region's greatest ongoing concerns are social and
economic inequalities -- which remain the most significant in the
world," the WEF said in a report on risks facing the region.


Latin America is the "most unequal region in the world," where 25
percent of the population lives on less than 2.0 dollars (1.5
euros) per day despite average growth rates of more than 4.0
percent over the past three years.


"Economic inequality and social marginalisation are the greatest
risks facing Latin America. These longstanding twin
disappointments continue to hamper the region's progress --
social cohesion and inclusive economic development are joined at
the hip," the report said.


It called for greater political will to tackle vested interests,
adding that the region's business community has the capacity to
become a key catalyst for change.


Economic inequalities and perceptions of injustice can feed into
political instability and a rise in populism, even though the
level of democratic stability over the past two decades in
unsurpassed in history, the WEF said.


"The poor and lower middle class in Latin America are still
largely disconnected and do not feel the benefits of
globalisation and liberalisation. The mismatch of interests
and/or perceptions of globalisation could lead to an endogenous
backlash, protectionism and political tensions," it warned.


Climate change is another cloud on the horizon with an increased
risk of extreme weather, drought, food insecurity, disease and
population displacement, the report said.


Illegal logging and deforestation in the Amazon Basin could also
have disastrous consequences not only for the region but also the
rest of the world, it added.


However, the need for new investments in alternative energy
sources such as biofuels could provide opportunities for
innovation and economic growth.


"Latin America is well positioned to become the global leader in
biofuels and renewable energy," especially due to sugarcane
refining in Brazil and soybeans in Argentina, the WEF said.

