

China, Russia and South Africa on Wednesday voiced opposition to
US and British plans to push for UN sanctions against Sudan at a
time when Khartoum is cooperating with the United Nations on
Darfur.


In Washington, US President George W. Bush bluntly warned that
Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir had one "last chance" to help
end violence in Darfur or face tougher US sanctions and other
punishments.


Britain and the United States said they would begin talks in the
Security Council Thursday on a new Sudan sanctions draft.


But Russia and China, two veto-wielding council members, along
with South Africa made it clear that they oppose such a draft at
this time.


"We don't think it's the right time. It would be very strange,"
Russia's UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin said. "Why do we have to be
so negative ? ... After a long while, we have this kind of
positive development in the dialogue between the UN and Khartoum
and all of a sudden to come back with some sanctions would not be
good."


China's deputy UN Ambassador Liu Zhenmin concurred.


"It is better not to move in that direction (sanctions)...Many
parties are engaging the Sudanese government. Agreement has been
reached for the heavy package support (deployment of UN 3,000
peacekeepers)," he said. "We have been informed that the
deployment could be completed by the end of the year."


Monday Sudan agreed following months of delays to let 3,000 UN
personnel plus helicopters into Darfur to support under-equipped
African Union forces trying to stabilize the region.


The UN peacekeepers are to provide logistical, communications,
intelligence and air support to 7,000 under-equipped AU troops
that have failed to stem four years of bloody ethnic strife in
the western Sudanese region.


"It is very surprising that they would be bringing up sanctions
when Sudan has just made great improvements on the request of the
UN for the heavy package (the deployment of 3,000 UN
peacekeepers), has accepted (UN chief) Ban Ki-moon's offer to
assist," South Africa's UN envoy Dumisani Kumalo told reporters.


"Bringing up sanctions now is very counterproductive. What's the
point?" he added.

