

At least 10 people including the principal of a girls' school
were killed in fresh violence in Afghanistan, while militants
kidnapped a senior government official, officials said Wednesday.


Four rebels and a policeman were killed in Tagab, a village in
Kapisa province just northeast of the capital, Kabul, a
provincial official said.


The fighting began late Tuesday when rebels attacked a police
unit which went to Tagab to eradicate poppy fields under a
government counter-narcotics programme, deputy provincial
governor Sayed Daud Hashimi said.


"It started on Tuesday and has continued until today
(Wednesday)," Hashimi told AFP. Five other policemen were injured
in the fighting, he added.


Tagab lies 25 kilometres (15 miles) north of Bagram Airfield,
which is the base for the 12,000-strong US-led coalition. A
separate force of about 37,000 NATO troops is also based in
Afghanistan.


Two more policemen were killed in a gunfight with poppy farmers
in neighboring Laghman province on Wednesday, spokesman for the
provincial administration Nizamuddin Mangal said.


The clashes began when farmers resisted counter-narcotics police
in Ambir district of Laghman, he said, adding the "resistance
still continues."


In the troubled Sangin district of southern Helmand province, two
Taliban fighters were killed Wednesday when rebels attacked an
Afghan army unit patrolling with US-led coalition troops, the
coalition said in a statement.


Taliban fighters, hiding in a compound, fired at the combined
forces patrol as they were conducting security operations in the
area, it said.


"The combined force returned small arms fire, pinning down the
Taliban fighters inside the compound.  After isolating the
compound, coalition aircraft were requested and destroyed the
compound with munitions," the statement said.


Suspected Taliban militants shot dead early Wednesday the
principal of a girls' school in eastern province of Khost, a
Taliban-dominated province on the Pakistani border, police said.


Ghulam Haider, the headmaster of Kundi girls' school in Khost
province, was killed while heading to the mosque for his morning
prayers, police official Wazir Padshah told AFP.


Meanwhile, a government official was abducted in southern Ghazni
province Wednesday, local police chief Ali Shah Alizai said.


Haji Obaid-ur Rahman, provincial head of the agriculture
department, was snatched while driving to Qalat, the capital of
Zabul province, Alizai said. The latest kidnapping comes as the
Taliban were holding 11 people, including two French nationals
they abducted April 3.


The fundamentalist Taliban were ousted by US-led forces in 2001
but have since hit back with a bloody insurgency that has already
left around 1,000 people dead this year, most of them rebels.

