

US officials on Wednesday warned Moscow that it was in the line
of fire of "the missile threat from Iran" and urged it to
cooperate with plans to base a US missile defence system on
Russia's doorstep.


"We believe Russia has an interest in cooperating with us and
NATO because the missile threat from Iran comes to Russia first,"
US Under-Secretary of Defence for Policy, Eric Edelman, told
reporters in Warsaw.


He was speaking on the eve of a meeting in Brussels on the
missile shield between the Russians, United States and NATO
members.


Russia was riled when Washington announced in January that it
wants to install 10 Interceptor missiles in Poland and a powerful
radar in the Czech Republic, as it extends the cloak of missile
defence already in place in the United States to its European
allies.


Washington maintains that the system is aimed at protecting the
United States and parts of Europe from long-range missile attacks
from the Middle East, and Iran in particular.


But Russia is nervous about the idea that its old Cold War foe
would set this up on its doorstep, and has accused Washington of
targeting it with the facility.


"Russia comes within range first, the flight paths of these
missiles traverse Russia first, before they fly over central
Europe," Edelman said after he and Lieutenant-General Henry Trey
Obering, head of the Pentagon's Missile Defence Agency, met with
Polish officials on the defence system.


Edelman dismissed Moscow's claims that the missiles were a threat
to Russia.


"How 10 Interceptors which don't have explosive warheads --
they're purely kinetic vehicles that destroy the incoming missile
by virtue of the high speed of the intercept -- could possibly
threaten Russia's nuclear deterrent, which is made up of hundreds
of missiles and thousands of warheads, is a little hard to see,"
he said.


Obering said Washington has been wholly transparent in its
dealings with its allies and Russia on the missile shield, even
inviting them to visit sites already installed in Alaska and
California.


"We have invited many of our allies to visit missile defence
sites in the United States. We have also invited the Russians to
visit those sites. We have nothing to hide," he said.


But he stressed that Poland would be responsible for choosing who
would be invited to visit any site set up on its soil.


"This is not US territory. Poland would be responsible for
inviting in anyone to visit a facility set up in Poland," he
said.


Edelman and Obering traveled Wednesday evening to Brussels for
the meeting with NATO members and Russia on the missile shield.


Developing the defense shield must begin in the short-term, said
Obering, to avoid "finding ourselves in a situation where we
begin to see a threat and can't do anything about it because we
have no system to turn on."


If formal negotiations with Poland and the Czech Republic are
begun this year, installation of the system could begin "in the
latter part of 2008", and the facility could be operational by
2013, the US general said.

