

DaimlerChrylser will invest more than 1.7 billion dollars in new
plants in the United States even amid negotiations on the sale of
its US division, the head of the Chrysler unit said Wednesday.


The news comes amid discussions by the German-based auto giant to
sell the loss- making US unit. Chrysler president Tom LaSorda
said the company cannot wait for the outcome of these talks to
make critical investments.


"We can't sit still. We have to forge ahead," Chrysler president
Tom LaSorda told reporters. "The future is all about new products
and new powertrains."


LaSorda declined to comment on the status of negotiations and
said he remains focused on a plan to return Chrysler to
profitability by 2009 while cutting 13,000 jobs.


"We've got to be profitable no matter what happens," he said at a
press briefing.


"We have to worry about what we can control. Regardless of what's
happened, we have to refocus all our energy on the transformation
and recovery plan."


US sales appear to have stabilized despite a four percent drop in
the first quarter. International sales have climbed 13 percent in
the first three months of the year, LaSorda said.


Amid the sales negotiations, Chrysler is also looking for
potential partnerships which would help it expand sales overseas,
he added.


The investments includes 700 million dollars to build a new axle
plant north of Detroit, Michigan, which will use designs
developed by the Mercedes Group. It will replace an existing
facility built in 1917.


Some 730 million dollars will be spent on a new engine plant
south of Detroit which produce more fuel-efficient engines and
will replace an outmoded facility.


Another 300 million dollars will be spend to replace the
company's existing paint shop outside of Detroit and 50 million
dollars will be used to upgrade a truck plant outside of Detroit.


The new investment was hailed as a way to keep jobs in the
economically ravaged Detroit area which has been suffering from
mass layoffs at Chrysler, Ford and General Motors.

