

World oil prices sank on Wednesday after a another weekly fall in
US motor fuel reserves was overshadowed by news that US
refineries have accelerated production following recent
maintenance.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery dropped 40
cents to 65.53 dollars per barrel in London electronic deals,
after earlier dunking beneath 65 dollars for the first time since
March 27.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost 10 cents to 63.00 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


"The (oil market) sentiment is pretty negative so the market is
seizing on any bearish element" that will drive prices lower,
said Calyon analyst Mike Wittner.


He added: "More specifically (the market) is looking at the
number of refinery runs which went up significantly," he said in
reference to increased gasoline (or petrol) production in the
United States.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) said Wednesday that American
refineries upped production capacity to 90.4 percent in the week
to April 13, from 88.4 percent the previous week. That beat
market expectations of 88.9 percent.


"As soon as refinery runs start to come up, even though demand is
stronger, output is going to start to pick up," Wittner added.


Dealers are watching gasoline stats closely before the summer
driving season, starting next month, when many Americans take to
the highways for their holidays.


However, US gasoline reserves fell 2.7 million barrels last week.
That marked the tenth consecutive weekly decline and was heavier
than analysts' forecasts for a drop of 1.9 million barrels.


The DoE added that US crude stocks fell by 1.0 million barrels,
confounding forecasts for a gain of 625,000 barrels.


Traders were also tracking geopolitical worries.


The world's fourth biggest oil producer, Iran, refused Wednesday
to rule out using crude as a weapon if the standoff with the West
over its nuclear programme intensified, saying that the Islamic
Republic would use every means if attacked.


"The Islamic Republic of Iran's policy is to supply energy as a
responsibility. We are never seeking to cut the energy supplies
to the world," Oil Minister Kazem Vaziri-Hamaneh told an oil
conference in Tehran.


"But naturally every country, which is subject to danger or
attack, should use all its possibilities to defend itself and
this is every country's right," he said.


His comments came in response to a question on whether Iran would
use oil as a weapon if the UN Security Council passed a third
resolution imposing more sanctions against Tehran over the atomic
drive.

