

The rugged mountains separating Lebanon from Syria reflect the
two neighbours' troubled relations, set to be complicated further
by a UN call for a probe into alleged arms smuggling across the
border.


The UN Security Council asked UN chief Ban Ki-moon on Tuesday to
send "at the earliest" an independent mission to investigate
reports of illegal arms movements across the border, but an
eventual mission faces a tricky task.


The remote mountains have historically provided smuggling routes
in an impoverished tribal area where the international frontier
has never been demarcated since the two states became independent
in the 1940s.


Since its war with Lebanese Shiite movement Hezbollah last year,
Israel has conducted regular "reconnaissance" flights to attempt
to prove its accusations that Syria and its ally Iran are still
smuggling weapons to the militia.


The overflights violate the same August 2006 UN truce resolution
that Israel protests is being broken by the alleged arms
smuggling.


The Security Council condemned the overflights while also
expressing "its serious concern at mounting information by Israel
and another state" of arms smuggling, it said in a statement
adopted unanimously by the 15-member body.


Syria has denied that arms are making their way over the border
into Lebanon and warned against any moves to station
international troops on the other side of the frontier.


The Lebanese government and army command have said repeatedly
that no arms have been smuggled into the country from Syria since
the July-August war.


But Lebanon lacks the means to provide tight monitoring of the
290 kilometre (180 mile) border, an army spokesman told AFP.


He said the army had boosted its presence to 8,000 troops since
last year's war.


The German contingent of the UN peacekeeping force in south
Lebanon has also provided equipment to monitor the official
crossing points on the border.


The row over the porous frontier comes amid tense relations
between Lebanon and former powerbroker Syria which was forced to
end 29 years of military and political domination of its smaller
neighbour in April 2005.


Syria has repeatedly refused to demarcate the border until
relations with Lebanon improve. A joint commission set up in the
1950s has failed to resolve the issue.


The border runs eastward from the Mediterranean along the Kebir
river before swinging south to follow the snow-capped Anti-
Lebanon range south to Mount Hermon and the Israeli-occupied
Golan Heights.


One small section of the strategic plateau, a 20 square kilometre
(eight square mile) territory known as the Shebaa Farms, is
claimed by Lebanon with Syrian blessing in an arrangement not
recognized by the United Nations.


Israel continues to occupy the territory which Hezbollah has
vowed to liberate.

