

Skipper Habibul Bashar predicts a bright future for his young
team, saying all they need is to show more consistency to compete
with the giants of the game.


Bangladesh blew hot and cold during their World Cup campaign.


They beat India in the preliminary round and then caused a major
upset with a win over semi-finalists South Africa in the Super
Eights.


But they were then left to curse their below-par showing against
debutants Ireland to whom they lost by 54 runs in the battle of
giantkillers on Sunday which dashed any lingering hopes of a
semi-final place.


Bangladesh, who were facing West Indies here on Thursday, have
two points in the Super Eights as compared to England (four in
six), Ireland (two in seven) and the hosts (two in five).


"Had we shown more consistency things would have been different.
I still feel this young Bangladesh team, and some of the talented
players, can go places," Bashar said.


"There are quite a few guys who can go on to become future stars.
(Mohammad) Ashraful has been playing good cricket for a while,
and I think he can go a long way. Saqibul (Hasan), as people have
seen, has been brilliant at this level.


"Then we have Tamim (Iqbal), who has not made big runs, but he
has the capability to dominate the bowlers. And among the
bowlers, if Mashrafe (Mortaza) can stay fit, which I hope he
does, he can do a lot for the team."


Bangladesh selected most of their under-19 players which infused
a fighting spirit in the team and that proved to be the key to
beating India by five wickets at Port of Spain in the first
round.


"The presence of the young lads helps the team and helps them as
well. Bangladesh has been very competitive at the under-19 level,
they have come close at the World Cup, and many of the under-19
boys believe they are the best," said Bashar.


"They have brought that same attitude with them to this level
also, and I am very happy that they have reacted well at the
senior level as it helped us against India and South Africa."


The 34-year-old Bangladesh captain termed his team's Cup campaign
as a learning experience.


"We are a young side, and I hope we can keep this team together
for one or two years so that the boys gain more experience. You
can become consistent only with experience.


"If you look at our performances, there have been big contrasts
in all departments. Even in fielding, we have been brilliant one
day and very ordinary the next. You have to be consistent, you
need to improve in all departments of the game."


Bashar said he was disappointed not to have led the team by
example.


"Being the captain, I want to score runs and set an example for
the other players," said the captain who struggled for runs at
the World Cup making just 93 runs in seven innings, without a
half-century.


"My not scoring runs harms the team, and it is unfortunate for me
and my side that I have been out of form, which can happen in a
big tournament."


After finishing their World Cup campaign on Thursday, Bangladesh
will then host India for two Tests and three one-day
internationals next month.

