

European Union leaders are surprisingly silent about the
spiralling euro and risk pushing the single currency even higher,
thereby hindering eurozone exports, analysts said Wednesday.


"The quasi-silence of our leaders has been noted," Mathilde
Lemoine, an economist at the HSBC bank said, as the euro on
Wednesday surged past 1.36 dollars for the first time since
December 2004.


European finance ministers from the Group of Seven, meeting in
Germany in early February when the euro was changing hands at
1.29 dollars, voiced fears that a fast appeciating single
currency -- notably against the Japanese yen -- could erode
eurozone export earnings and dampen growth.


They criticised massive "carry trade" operations under which
dealers borrow money in low interest rates countries such as
Japan in order to invest in assets in markets with higher rates,
such as Britain or Australia.


But as the euro has since gone on record to record, lying a
whisker from its historic December 2004 peak against the dollar
of 1.3666, European authorities have been sitting on the fence.


At a meeting last Friday in Washington they merely repeated their
contention that "excess volatility and disorderly movements in
exchange rates are undesirable for economic growth."


Only France's economy minister, Thierry Breton, stuck his neck
out, calling for "vigilance" in the face of the strong euro.


European silence is increasingly being interpreted by markets as
an encouragement for the euro to rise even further, notably as
the European Central Bank is expected to raise its key interest
rate to 4.00 percent from 3.75 percent in June -- at a time when
the US Federal Reserve could lower its own rates.


Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who also heads the
Eurogroup of eurozone finance ministers, confined himself to a
low-key warning about "carry trades" on Wednesday, saying that
markets should not go for "one-way bets."


Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi meanwhile said he hoped "the
euro will not go up too much" and that "Europe has until now
shown flexibility and endurance" in grappling with fluctuations
in its currency."


Veronique Riches-Flores, an economist at French bank Societe
Generale, said the caution could be explained by currrently
positive economic data. The eurozone registered an external trade
deficit of 1.7 billion euros (2.3 billion dollars) in February,
four times less than the January shortfall.


Pierre Defraigne, the director of the European department at the
French Institute for International Relations, said the level of
the euro simply reflected economic fundamentals -- the European
Union is in better shape than the United States for the first
time since 2001.


But Riches-Flores warned that if the ECB continued to increase
interest rates "we will end up paying in terms of exchange rates
and therefore growth."


She said the silence of European leaders was perhaps also due to
the imminent French presidential election and fears the European
Central Bank and the currency would come under attack from
candidates.

