

An acrimonious battle has broken out between French and Spanish
shareholders over control of major French construction group
Eiffage.


The row came to a head on Wednesday when Spanish construction
group Sacyr Vallehermoso, the company's biggest shareholder,
failed in its bid to get seats on the group's management board.


The Eiffage group, the third-largest French group in public works
and the sixth- largest in Europe, is known for building the
Millau viaduct in southern France, the tallest vehicular bridge
in the world.


And in another indication of its size, it has links to Gustave
Eiffel, who built the Eiffel Tower.


Sacyr, which has 33.2-percent stake in Eiffage, had demanded five
seats on the management board, sparking fears in France about a
foreign takeover of one of the country's biggest construction
groups.


Spanish shareholders, who hold more than 7.0 percent of the
group, had been expected to back Sacyr's initiative at
Wednesday's general assembly.


But the company nipped their move in the bud, stripping 89
Spanish shareholders of their voting rights on the grounds that
they had acted in concert to help Sacyr.


Sacyr took out a page in French business newspaper La Tribune on
Tuesday to appeal to Eiffage shareholders, managers and employees
to support its request for five board seats.


In a full page advertisment, Sacyr said: "We consider that all
shareholders should be entitled to representation on Eiffage's
board of directors."


It added that the two companies could "work together to further
Eiffage's development."


Last week, French and European employee unions expressed concerns
over Sacyr's intentions and declared themselves staunchly opposed
to any takeover moves that do not include firm and explicit
commitments regarding the future of the group.


Sacyr reiterated statements made last week that it "wants Eiffage
to be a French group, run by a French management team" and that
it had no intention of dismantling it.


"We are not asking for any of Eiffage's assets or businesses to
be sold. On the contrary, Sacyr Vallehermoso wants to strengthen
the potential of all (Eiffage's) businesses, including the
construction business," the Spanish group said in the
advertisement.


Following the decision by French shareholders to deprive some
Spanish shareholders of their voting rights, representatives of
Sacyr walked out of the general assembly but later returned to
exercise their own rights.


Sacyr said it planned to take legal action to challenge the
validity of the general assembly.


In mid-afternoon trade on Wednesday Eiffage shares had lost 1.38
percent to 105.25 euros, on an overall CAC 40 index which had
fallen 0.38 percent.

