

Ryan Giggs has warned Manchester United fans that their side's
swashbuckling style might have to be curtailed as the season
enters its final weeks with a potential treble still up for
grabs.


United edged nearer to their first Premiership title since 2003
with a 2-0 win over struggling Sheffield United on Tuesday but it
was a subdued performance when set against the 7-1 thrashing of
Roma last week or even the 4-1 rout of Watford in the FA Cup
semi-final on Saturday.


And Giggs expects more of the same in the coming weeks.


"It is not about performances now, it is about winning games,"
said the winger, who has featured in all eight previous Premier
League triumphs under Sir Alex Ferguson.


"We can't score four and five every time. I would take 1-0
against Middlesbrough (on Saturday) right now.


"The key for us is to keep clean sheets, because we will always
create a few chances. So, as long as the lads at the back do
their job, I am sure we will be okay."


United's stretched defensive resources will be replenished when
Rio Ferdinand and John O'Shea return to the fold on Saturday,
three days before the Champions League semi-final first leg
against AC Milan.


Ferguson meanwhile has paid tribute to the burgeoning role of
Alan Smith following the striker's comeback from career-
threatening ankle and leg fractures that meant he was making his
first Premiership start in 14 months on Tuesday.


"Alan has had a torrid time," observed Ferguson. "But not only
did he work like a beast to recover from the extensive damage, he
persevered when it became apparent that despite being declared
fit, he still had some way to go to rediscover his previous
sharpness and form.


"It must have been disheartening to find that everything was
taking time to fall into place. But he has stuck at it and I am
so pleased for him."


Smith's form, together with the likelihood Ferguson will attempt
to bolster his striking options in the summer, is bound to raise
question marks over the future of Louis Saha.


Lauded for his enormous impact at the start of the season, Saha
has started just three games since New Year's Day and is
currently sidelined with a hamstring injury.


After repeatedly being forced to revise an anticipated return
date for the former Fulham man, Ferguson appears to be growing
exasperated by his failure to appear.


"Louis is still bothered by his hamstring," admitted the Scot. "I
don't see any quick return there."


Although he has no major winners' medals to show off, Smith was
involved in a Champions League semi-final during his time at
Leeds, which should be handy against Milan next week.


Giggs has played in three. And he believes his experience, plus
that of Paul Scholes and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, will prove vital
in the weeks ahead.


"The experience of the manager and the players who have done it
before is always a help, especially to the players who have
already won a league," he said.


"We are down to the business end of the season now and facing a
lot of high pressure games in a very short space of time.


"Getting up for all these matches is a skill itself. Which is
more important, Middlesbrough or Milan? One is just as important
as the other, so we have to remain focused until the end of the
season."

