

The US Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte praised Libya's
efforts on the Darfur crisis on Wednesday and said he hoped the
US and the former pariah state could build a "new relationship."


"Because of Libya's historic decision in 2003 to renounce
terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, we are now able to
work together as partners on areas of mutual interest," he said
at a Tripoli press conference.


Negroponte, on a four-nation African tour focused on trying to
resolve the crisis in Sudan's western Darfur region, held talks
on Wednesday with Libya's foreign secretary and head of African
affairs.


Negroponte, Washington's number-two diplomat, was the highest-
ranking US official to visit Libya since then secretary of state
John Dulles held talks with Libyan officials in 1953.


Relations between Libya and the United States were severed in
1981 but restored in May 2006 after Kadhafi's regime renounced
terrorism and abandoned efforts to develop weapons of mass
destruction in late 2003.


He said Washington was "committed to building this new
relationship as possible" adding that "we hope to name a new
ambassador to Libya in the near future."


In Washington however the State Department struck a less
diplomatic tone, accusing Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi of
snubbing the diplomat despite a US request for the two to meet.


"He didn't meet with Mr. Kadhafi," McCormack said of Negroponte's
stay in the Libyan capital. "We thought it would have been a
useful meeting to have. It didn't happen," he added.


No reason was given for the Libyan decision. "Unfortunately some
of the decision-making there is a bit opaque," he said.


The United States is still seeking Libyan compensation for
victims of terrorist acts that "Libya has acknowledged that it
was involved in," McCormack said.


Washington has also joined European leaders in demanding the
release of five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor
condemned to death for allegedly infecting more than 400 Libyan
children with HIV, which causes AIDS.


Since the reestablishment of relations, a number of senior State
Department diplomats have visited Tripoli, but US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice has yet to seal the renewal of ties with a
visit of her own, conditioning the trip on resolution of two
disputes.


Libya has agreed to pay 10 million US dollars to the families of
victims of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,
Scotland, which killed 270 people, but has not yet completed the
payouts.


Washington has also demanded compensation for the families of two
US serviceman killed in the 1986 bombing of the La Belle disco in
Berlin.


Libyan agents were held responsible for both attacks.

