

Assailants slit the throats of three people, one of them a
German, at a publishing house in eastern Turkey that had been
threatened for distributing Bibles and printing books on
Christianity, officials said Wednesday.


The gruesome murders in Malatya, 650 kilometres (400 miles) east
of Ankara, appeared to be the latest attack on minorities in
Turkey following the killings of a Roman Catholic priest last
year and an ethnic Armenian journalist in January.


The victims' hands and feet were tied and throats slit, Malatya
Governor Halil Ibrahim Dasoz told the NTV news channel.


The German embassy in Ankara confirmed that one of the dead was a
German citizen, without releasing any other details.


"I most strongly condemn this brutal crime," an embassy spokesman
quoted German ambassador Eckart Cuntz as saying.


Dasoz said the two other dead appeared to be Turks, although
there were doubts about the nationality of one of them.


Two were found dead in the third-storey office of the Zirve
(Summit) publishing house and the third died in hospital, the
governor said.


Two of the dead were reportedly employees of the publishing
house.


Zirve general manager Hamza Ozant told CNN Turk television that
the publishing house had received "certain threats," without
giving details.


An aide to the Malatya governor told AFP that Zirve "was engaged
in missionary activities."


The publishing house had been the target of protests by
nationalists accusing it of proselytizing, media reports said.


Proselytizing is generally viewed with suspicion in Turkey, whose
population is 99 percent Muslim. Small Greek Othodox, Catholic,
Armenian and Jewish communities are concentrated mainly in
Istanbul.


Dasoz said the company had not sought any special police
protection.


Security forces detained four suspects at the scene, he said,
adding that a fifth man hospitalised with injuries after jumping
from the window of the office was also considered a suspect.


The chief physician of a local hospital said the man who jumped
was in a "serious condition."


In February 2006, an Italian Catholic priest was shot dead as he
prayed in his church in the northern city of Trabzon. A teenager
was convicted of the murder and jailed for nearly 19 years.


In January, journalist Hrant Dink, a prominent member of Turkey's
Armenian community, was gunned down in the street in Istanbul. A
17-year-old, detained along with 11 other suspected ultra-
nationalists, confessed to the killing.


The murders raised concerns that nationalism and anti-Christian
hostility is on the rise in Turkey, a candidate for European
Union membership.

