

Democrats on Wednesday softened their position on the withdrawal
of US troops from Iraq ahead of talks with US President George W.
Bush on funding for the four-year-old war.


Leaders of the new Democratic majority said before a scheduled
meeting with Bush they hoped to negotiate an exit strategy with
the White House, which is fiercely opposed to a specific
timetable.


Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the House of Representatives, said the
Democrats were determined to reach out and say, "Mr. President,
we must work together. We must negotiate an approach that will
wind down this war."


Pelosi and Senate Majority leader Harry Reid conspicuously
avoided a demand for the pullout of US troops starting next year
that was contained in a funding bill Bush has sworn to veto.


"It's not a question of 'back down,'" Pelosi told reporters.
"It's a question of negotiate a winding down of this war.


"It's necessary that we do that because the course of action we
are in is a war without end."


Bush has stood firm against what he called this week the
Democrats' "unreasonable demands for a precipitous withdrawal"
that would have serious consequences for the United States and
the Middle East.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said what Bush was looking
forward to "hearing is how the Democrats have decided to
compromise amongst themselves, first, so that he knows what their
position is."


There are currently 145,000 US troops in Iraq, and the number
should rise to 160,000 by June under a "surge" ordered by Bush to
try to restore order in Baghdad.


Locked in a weeks-long standoff over a 120-billion-dollar
emergency funding package for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan,
Bush and the Democratic leaders scheduled a meeting Wednesday
behind closed doors at the White House.


Iraq was the dominant issue in last year's mid-term elections,
that saw the Democrats seize control of both chambers of Congress
after vowing to seek an end to the war, which is deeply unpopular
amongst most US voters.


However, Democrats have been torn between following up their
electoral pledges while at the same time not wanting to leave
themselves open to charges of endangering troops or worsening the
situation on the ground in Iraq.


Democrats plan to have legislation on Bush's desk next week,
testing the president's threat to veto any measure that imposes a
deadline for pulling US forces out of the strife-torn country.


The Pentagon has said it is just weeks away from having to cut
some programs to fund military operations in Iraq and
Afghanistan, while Bush and his supporters charge that a
timetable for pulling US troops would be tantamount to conceding
defeat to terrorists.


The fierce debate in Washington comes as Bush has insisted that
his tactic of sending more US troops to Iraq has shown promising
early results, even as the US military in the war-torn country
has reported mounting US casualties.


On Monday, the military announced the deaths of seven personnel,
bringing April's total to 50, with an average daily toll of
three, and total losses since the March 2003 invasion to 3,304,
according to an AFP tally of Pentagon reports.


American troops are deployed in Iraq in support of Prime Minister
Nuri al- Maliki's government, which is battling an Al Qaeda-led
Sunni insurgency in a country also blighted by a Sunni-Shiite
sectarian bloodshed.


For two months, a joint US and Iraqi force has been carrying out
a huge security operation in Baghdad to hunt down sectarian death
squads and give Maliki the time and space to reconcile the
warring factions.

