

EU officials voiced optimism Wednesday that Russia can be
persuaded this weekend to lift its embargo on Polish farm
products so that talks can begin on a new partnership agreement
with Moscow.


The door to better relations may be unlocked on Saturday when EU
Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou meets Russian Agriculture
Minister Alexei Gordeyev in Cyprus to discuss the embargo
problem.


"We hope that this meeting will allow progress to be made on this
important issue for the EU and Poland," EU Commission chief Jose
Manuel Barroso told a press conference with Polish Prime Minister
Jaroslaw Kaczynski in Brussels.


On Tuesday the commission sent the latest in a string of letters
to Moscow, seeking to clear up lingering concerns over the safety
of Polish meat and other foodstuffs.


Russia, which accuses the Polish authorities of lax practices in
the implementation of food safety standards, imposed its embargo
in November 2005 but Warsaw argues that the ban is a politically
motivated move against the former Soviet satellite state.


The row has taken on wider proportions since Warsaw has vetoed
the opening of talks between the European Union and Russia on a
new partnership agreement in retaliation over the embargo.


That new broad economic cooperation agreement will be aimed,
among other things, at securing a reliable flow to Europe from
Russia's massive oil and gas fields.


The existing partnership agreement runs out late this year, but
EU officials stress that it can be extended in the absence of a
new deal.


The meeting on Saturday in Cyprus, Kyprianou's home country, will
be on an informal basis but is hoped to yield important returns.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will then hold meetings
with EU officials on the sidelines of an EU foreign ministers'
meeting in Luxembourg on Monday, where it is hoped that more
progress can be made.


"We are all very hopeful, but we are going to have to wait and
see," one EU diplomat said. "There are some very positive signals
coming out at present."


An EU-Russia summit will take place on May 18 in the eastern
Russian city of Samara.

