

Syria or Iran continue to provide weapons to the Shiite militia
Hezbollah in Lebanon in violation of a UN arms embargo, a senior
US official said Wednesday.


"The border between Lebanon and Syria remains highly porous,"
Assistant Secretary of State David Welch told a Congressional
panel.


Welch said Washington agreed with a recent report by UN Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon asserting "serious breaches" of the arms
embargo imposed under a UN Security Council resolution which
ended last year's war between Israel and Hezbollah.


"It is clear in (Ban's) judgment, and it is clear in our own
independent (judgment) that Hezbollah continues to rearm and we
can see no other source for such assistance than Syria or Iran,"
said Welch, the top State Department official for the Middle
East.


"We are encouraging the Lebanese army and UNIFIL to take a more
assertive role in stopping smuggling," he said, referring to an
expanded United Nations peacekeeping force deployed in Lebanon
following the July-August war.


Welch said Hezbollah, which is also a political movement in
Lebanon, of campaigning to overthrow the elected government of
Prime Minister Fuad Siniora, with Syria's backing.


He said one aim was to thwart the establishment of a UN-backed
special tribunal to investigate the February 2005 assassination
of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri.


Hariri was a strong opponent of Syria's long domination of
Lebanon and many believe Damascus was behind his murder.


Welch said that if Lebanon is unable to formally endorse the
creation of the special tribunal due to opposition from Hezbollah
and other pro-Syrian parties in parliament, the US could back
unilateral action by the UN.


"If the Lebanese government is unable to approve the agreement,
the (Security) Council may need to consider other mechanisms for
establishing the Tribunal, including under UN Security Council
Chapter VII authority," he said.


Chapter VII of the UN Charter gives the Security Council the
power to impose mandatory actions on member states.


Welch was speaking after the Security Council on Tuesday asked
Ban to send an independent mission to investigate reports of
illegal arms movements across the Lebanese-Syrian border.


The council expressed its "serious concern at mounting
information by Israel and another state" of arms smuggling across
the border in violation of UN resolution 1701.


Syria has denied that arms are making their way over the border
into Lebanon and warned against any moves to station
international troops along the frontier in Lebanon, which
Damascus occupied for 30 years until being forced by popular
protests to withdraw following Hariri's assassination.


Ban is due to visit Syria next Tuesday.

