

The United States is willing to give Sudan "weeks" to follow up
on its promise to allow UN peacekeepers into Darfur, but will
quickly begin preparing a UN sanctions resolution for enactment
if Khartoum fails to act, a senior US official said Wednesday.


Washington will launch an intensive diplomatic lobbying campaign
on Thursday by dispatching a senior State Department official to
South Africa, the current president of the UN Security Council
which has come out in opposition to sanctions against Sudan,
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


President George W. Bush earlier Wednesday said Washington was
giving Sudanese leader Omar al-Beshir one "last chance" to live
up to agreements to allow up to 20,000 UN-led troops into Darfur.


But McCormack clarified that the US had agreed to a request from
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon for additional time to test
recent signs of Sudanese willingness to drop its objections to
the deployment of the peacekeepers.


He said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice had spoken with Ban
Tuesday and again Wednesday on the matter.


"President Beshir does have some time" before facing sanctions,
McCormack said.


"He has weeks in order to fully meet the commitments that he
signed on to," he said, referring to an agreement signed by Sudan
last year to allow well-armed UN-led troops into Darfur, where
attacks by government-backed militia have left more than 200,000
people dead over the past four years.


"We are going to give Secretary General Ban some time to work
with the Sudanese authorities as well as others in the hope that
they will follow through on those commitments," he said.


At the same time, he said, US diplomats will begin a joint effort
with Britain to prepare a UN Security Council resolution imposing
sanctions on Sudan if Beshir backs away from his commitment on
the peacekeeping force, he said.


Kristen Silverberg, the assistant secretary of state for
international organizations, will begin the drive in South Africa
on Thursday, he said.


"This is designed to send a clear message of the seriousness of
our intent in doing our part to make the diplomacy work -- that
it's going to require more than just us," he said.


"That kind of diplomatic interaction is going to be replicated
all around the globe, with the thought in mind that we may well
have to act on a Security Council resolution," he said.


South Africa's envoy to the United Nations joined his
counterparts from China and Russia earlier Wednesday in voicing
opposition to the sanctions move.

