

US Secretary of Defence Robert Gates arrived in Israel on
Wednesday on the third leg of a Middle East tour aimed at
countering Iran's influence in the region and shoring up support
for Iraq.


Gates is to meet Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Defence Minister
Amir Peretz, US officials said.


The trip, which follows stopovers in Jordan and Egypt, is also
aimed at reinvigorating the Palestinian-Israeli peace process --
a top issue in Gates' talks with Jordan's King Abdullah II and
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.


The visit is the first to key ally Israel by a US defence
secretary since William Cohen in November 2000.


"The first thing that the secretary will want to do will be
reassure Israel vis-a-vis the Iranian issue and the nuclear
issue," said a senior US Defence Department official travelling
with Gates, speaking on condition of anonymity.


Gates will also ask about Israel's regional intentions,
"particularly vis-a-vis Lebanon, the Gaza Strip and Syria," the
official said.


Israel waged a month-long war against Lebanon's Shiite movement
Hezbollah in 2006 and accuses the militia of trying to re-arm
ahead of another potential conflict, mainly across Lebanon's
porous border with Syria.


"Where does Israel see itself post activity last summer vis-a-vis
Lebanon? What is their position regarding the Hezbollah re-arming
in Lebanon and activity across the border there?" the official
said.


The UN Security Council on Tuesday called on UN chief Ban Ki-moon
to send a mission to probe the alleged smuggling of arms from
Syria into Lebanon. Damascus denies any involvement in such
smuggling.


Gates will also seek to reassure Israel over the planned US sales
of advanced weaponry to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries.


The weapons package, aimed at countering Iran's growing strength
in the region, reportedly includes tanks, warships and advanced
air defence systems valued at between five and 10 billion
dollars.


However, the exact content and value of the arms package is still
under consideration, the Defence Department official said.


The UN Security Council has imposed sanctions on Iran for failing
to curtail its nuclear programme. Washington and major powers say
the programme is aimed at producing nuclear weapons, while Tehran
insists it is peaceful.


US officials have refused to rule out the option of military
force to bring Iran to heel should sanctions fail to work.

