

Libyan leader Moamer Kadhafi snubbed the highest-level US
official to visit his country in a half-century, a US spokesman
said Wednesday, signaling a setback to the drawn-out
rapprochement between the two former enemies.


Kadhafi ignored a US request to meet Tuesday with US Deputy
Secretary of State John Negroponte, who was left to hold talks
with lower-level officials during a one-day visit to Tripoli,
State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


"He didn't meet with Mr. Kadhafi," McCormack said of Negroponte's
stay in the Libyan capital. No reason was given for the Libyan
decision, he said.


"Unfortunately some of the decision-making there is a bit
opaque," he said.


"We thought it would have been a useful meeting to have. It
didn't happen," he said.


McCormack initially said Negroponte also did not meet with Libyan
Foreign Minister Abdelrahman Mohammed Shalgam, but the State
Department later said such a meeting had in fact taken place.


McCormack described Negroponte's talks in Tripoli as "positive"
and said they concerned regional tensions involving Sudan, the
crisis in Darfur and issues which have been hindering the full
normalization of US-Libyan relations.


Negroponte notably urged Libya to finalize compensation payments
to victims of terrorist acts that "Libya has acknowledged that it
was involved in" and resolve the case of five Bulgarian nurses
and a Palestinian doctor condemned to death for allegedly
infecting more than 400 Libyan children with HIV, which causes
AIDS, he said.


Washington has joined European leaders in demanding the six be
released.


Negroponte, Washington's number-two diplomat, was the highest-
ranking US official to visit Libya since then secretary of state
John Dulles held talks with Libyan officials in 1953.


Relations between Libya and the United States were severed in
1981 but restored in May 2006 after Kadhafi's regime renounced
terrorism and abandoned efforts to develop weapons of mass
destruction in late 2003.


Since the reestablishment of relations, a number of senior State
Department diplomats have visited Tripoli.


But US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has yet to seal the
renewal of ties with a visit of her own, conditioning the trip on
resolution of the terrorism compensation issue and the release of
the foreign medical workers.


Libya has agreed to pay 10 million dollars to the families of
victims of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie,
Scotland, which killed 270 people, but has not yet completed the
payouts.


Washington has also demanded compensation for the families of two
US servicemen killed in the 1986 bombing of the La Belle disco in
Berlin.


Libyan agents were held responsible for both attacks.

