

Somali elders accused Ethiopian troops on Wednesday of breaking a
truce by attacking Islamist insurgents in southern Mogadishu,
sparking clashes that killed at least seven civilians.


Ethiopian army units facing off against the Islamists for days in
the volatile al Kamin neighbourhood initiated the fighting that
erupted late Tuesday near the presidential palace, they said.


"They are violating (the truce) by shelling the town and killing
people aimlessly," said Ahmed Diriye, a spokesman for the Hawiye,
a dominant clan in Mogadishu.


"What I can tell you is that Ethiopian forces have restarted the
fighting again," he said.


The clashes broke out despite a truce announced earlier this
month by Hawiye elders after talks with Ethiopian military
commanders.


Diriye said the Ethiopians had reneged on a key term in the
agreement requiring both sides to surrender territories acquired
in recent fighting and to withdraw their forces from the
frontline.


"They don't want to fulfill the ceasefire agreement (and) that is
why they are responsible for what happened and whatever happens,"
he said after emergency talks among the elders.


Leaders of the Ethiopian force have refused to meet again with
the elders until commanders of the Islamist insurgent movement
agree to attend.


The Ethiopian troops have been deployed in the country since the
start of the year to boost a UN-backed transitional government,
which with international help has ousted the Islamists from much
of southern and central Somalia.


Officials said President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, whose palace was
pounded by mortar shells late Tuesday, had left the city. But
they would not say where he had gone.


"I am not sure if his leaving is related to the fighting, but
overnight, some mortar shells landed inside and outside the
palace where he was staying," said one palace official.


Seven people were killed, several civilians wounded and houses
demolished in the latest fighting on Tuesday, witnesses said.


It followed four days of intense fighting from March 29 when
Ethiopian troops launched a crackdown on insurgents accused of
attacking government and Ethiopian army positions in the capital.


Elders said that at least 1,000 people had been killed and more
than 4,000 wounded in what humanitarian groups described as the
worst fighting in 15 years. The UN says at least 124,000 have
fled the city since February.


Top Islamist leader Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, who is currently
in Eritrea, has called on Somalis to intensify their resistance
to Ethiopian forces, whom he accused of "destruction and genocide
against defenseless civilians."


In Mogadishu, Somali Prime Minister Ali Mohamed Gedi reshuffled
his cabinet and also named a former warlord as the country's
police chief.


Gedi, whose government is beset by infighting, named former
Mogadishu warlord Abdi Hassan Awale Qeybdid as the new police
commissioner, replacing Ali Mohamed Loyan who was appointed as
the country's ambassador to Tanzania.


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has lacked an effective
government since the ousting of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in
1991 touched off a power struggle that exploded into inter-clan
warfare.


Some 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda deployed in the
lawless capital early March have failed to stem the upsurge in
violence.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the pan- African body plans to deploy in Somalia to
help Yusuf maintain control of the country.

