

Morocco is constantly on guard after a spate of suicide bombings
in the port city of Casablanca, a government spokesman said
Wednesday.


Government spokesman and Communications Minister Nabil
Benabdellah clarified that he had been misinterpreted earlier as
saying that the country was in a "state of extreme alert" and
underlined that security and surveillance were already at a high
level.


"Morocco is in the same state of alert against terrorism as it
had been in the past weeks," he said. "Ever since the interior
minister announced that Morocco faced a terrorism threat, the
state of alert has been unchanged."


Earlier on Wednesday, Benabdellah said that "terrorism can strike
any time," and added that security had been tightened at
"consulates, hotels frequented by foreigners and religious
places."


Some 20 people have been arrested in connection with last week's
suicide bombings in the port city.


Six militants died there last week as police investigated a March
11 explosion in a Internet cafe.


Three men blew themselves up as they were pursued by police last
Tuesday and a fourth would-be bomber was shot dead by police.


On Saturday two brothers blew themselves up near the US consulate
and near an American language school in Casablanca.


Benabdellah underlined that Moroccan authorities had displayed
great expertise and efficiency in the wake of the bombings.


"We hope to definitely defeat this gang which staged the March 11
attacks and those of last week."


The attacks last week in Morocco and in neighbouring Algeria,
where 30 people died in three suicide bombings, have sparked
fears that the recent violence presages an upsurge in Islamist
violence in the region.


He denied that terrorism was linked to poverty, arguing: "How
does one explain the 2004 Madrid bombings?"


"The fight for us is on two fronts: to protect citizens and
ensure the stability of the country and to continue building a
strong democracy which is being targetted by terrorists and to
strengthen social and democratic development."

