

The son of an eminent British archaeologist returned to Greece
six 2,500-year- old miniature ceramic vessels kept by his family
for half a century, Greek culture officials said on Wednesday.


The black-glazed vessels, miniature versions of a phial, a wine
jar and other household pottery, were in the possession of
Professor Martin Robertson, an authority on Classical Greek art
who died in 2004 at the age of 93.


"I wish to thank Professor Robertson's son (Matthew) for
personally delivering these exquisite objects, and tell him that
the Greek people thank his father," Greek Culture Minister George
Voulgarakis said during a ceremony at the Athenian Agora, the
ancient centre of the city's civic life.


A professor of classical archaeology at University College London
and Lincoln College, Oxford, Robertson bequeathed the items to
the Agora Museum, the cultural attache of Greece's embassy in
London, Victoria Solomonidou, told reporters on Wednesday.


Solomonidou said Robertson inherited the tiny vessels from a
staff member of the American School of Archaeology, Lucy Talkot,
who probably purchased them from a local antiquarian.


The American School of Archaeology has excavated the Athenian
Agora since 1931.


The vessels, which date back to the 5th Century BC, are the
latest in a series of ancient Greek objects to return to their
homeland this year, increasing hopes in Athens that the Greeks'
greatest claim, the Elgin Marbles in the British Museum, may
follow suit.


"We hope that these returning items...are part of a chain that
will lead to the reunification of the Parthenon sculptures,"
Voulgarakis said using the Greek name for the marble freizes.


The Parthenon sculptures depicting gods, men and monsters were
removed from the ancient temple by agents of British ambassador
Lord Elgin in 1806-11, at a time when Greece was part of the
Ottoman Empire.


They suffered damage in a botched cleaning operation in the late
1930's at a time when Robertson was the British Museum's
assistant keeper of Greek and Roman Antiquities, though he was
personally blameless, Solomonidou said.


Greece recently reclaimed four ancient masterpieces from the Los
Angeles-based J. Paul Getty Museum, and two marble decorative
fragments from the Athens Acropolis.

