

Rafael Nadal raced towards early command of the spring clay
season with a 63rd straight victory on the surface to reach the
third round of the Month Carlo Masters on Wednesday.


Spain's world number two dismissed Argentine Juan Chela 6-3, 6-1,
taking less than 90 minutes with 26 winners and five breaks of
serve.


Nadal's victory means he joins top rival Roger Federer in the
next round, though the Swiss needed two tiebreak sets a day
earlier to stake his claim with a second-round success over
Andreas Seppi.


Nadal beat number one Federer in the final here a year ago to
lift a second consecutive title in the principality.


The Spaniard's record-setting run on clay began in Monte Carlo
two years ago with a first round win over France's Gael Monfils,
three days after losing to Igor Andreev in the quarter-finals of
Valencia.


While Nadal plowed ahead against the 22nd-ranked Chela in
occasionally drifting light fog at the cliffside club, Nikolay
Davydenko became the first major seed to exit.


The third-seeded Russian lost 6-4, 6-7 (6/8), 6-3 to Sweden's
Robin Soderling.


Davydenko has thus lost twice in his only two clay contests this
season having been beaten in a Davis Cup rubber by Frenchman
Paul-Henri Mathieu.


Spain's fifth-seeded Tommy Robredo overwhelmed Frenchman Arnaud
Clement 6-3, 6-2 while fast-rising Serb Novak Djokovic, seeded
sixth, put out 2004 French Open winner Gaston Gaudio.


The Argentine, a 2006 semi-finalist here, has hit the skids on
his favoured surface this season, winning just four of ten
matches. He lifted his last title at Kitzbuehel in 2005.


Djokovic, who made his top ten breakthrough in recent weeks after
an Indian Wells final and his title in Miami, said: "Today's
match was difficult for me.


"It's a first match on the clay, different surface, different
style of the game, and different movement. I had to be more
focused.


"I still cannot find exactly the game for the clay."


Czech Tomas Berdych mowed down Benjamin Becker, defeating the
German 6-1, 6-2.


Spain's Juan Carlos Ferrero, champion in 2002-2003, continued his
annual spring resurgence as he crushed Chilean Nicolas Massu 6-2,
6-0, improving his record in that series to 6-2.

