

Security was tight in India's most populous state of Uttar
Pradesh on Wednesday as more than seven million people voted in
the third round of staggered state assembly elections.


Half of 15 million eligible voters cast their votes despite
searing temperatures, poll officials said.


The polls come halfway through the five-year term of the
Congress-led national government and will be closely watched as
an indicator of the popularity of Congress and the main
opposition Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).


Some 60,000 security personnel have been deployed in the 57
constituencies where polling was to take place, mostly in the
central part of the state, said chief electoral officer A.K.
Bishnoi.


"It went off peacefully although some candidates complained of
names of voters missing from the electoral lists," he said,
describing the polls as a "challenge" given the scale of the task
in the state of 180 million people that suffers high crime rates.


Among the 861 candidates were 171 facing criminal charges,
according to Uttar Pradesh Election Watch, a non-governmental
organisation founded by former police officers.


Exit polls from the earlier rounds show Mayawati Kumari, a woman
from India's "untouchable" Dalit classes who leads the Dalit-
based Bahujan Samaj Party, just ahead of incumbent chief minister
Mulayam Singh Yadav.


This round of the election was seen as crucial for Yadav's
regional Samajwadi party which picked up half the seats in this
area in state elections in 2002. He is up for re-election in the
current round.


The Congress was likely to better its record of 25 seats in the
403-member state assembly, thanks to campaigning by its chief
Sonia Gandhi and her son and heir- apparent Rahul, polls said.


They showed the BJP, upset by Congress in national elections in
2004, were likely to do well in the state polls, which began
April 7 and end on May 8.


Earlier this year, the BJP won polls in the northern states of
Uttarakhand and Punjab. Votes will be counted May 11.

