

The owner of the store where gunman Cho Seung-hui bought one of
the pistols used in Monday's US university shooting said he feels
numb over the tragedy, but not responsible.


John Markell, the owner of Roanoke Firearms in Virginia, told the
New York Daily News that his store clerk noticed nothing about
Cho's behavior to give him any reason to turn down the purchase
of a Glock handgun five weeks ago.


"I don't feel I'm responsible, but I just feel terrible he used
one of our guns," Markell told the Daily News.


The 58-year-old store owner said he felt "pretty numb" when
government officials told him that one of his guns had been used
in the shooting. "I was already just torn up over the tragedy,"
he said.


Markell was not at the store when Cho bought the 9mm handgun from
one of his clerks, but he cashed Cho's check for the purchase of
the 571-dollar gun.


Markell said Cho had shown a Virginia driver's license, his
checkbook and an immigration card and passed the Federal Bureau
of Investigation's instant background checker -- meaning there
was no reason to refuse his purchase.


"It was a very unremarkable sale," The New York Post quoted
Markell as saying. "He was a nice, clean-cut college kid. We
won't sell a gun if we have any idea at all that a purchase is
suspicious."


The store stocks an impressive array of weaponry, its inventory
of some 350 guns includes handguns, assault and sniper rifles.
Its front door has a picture of Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden
in the crosshairs of a sniper's scope.


It is not the first time one of Markell's guns has been used in a
crime. Four other guns he sold in the past were later used in
homicides, Markell was reported as saying.


The shocked gun store owner was not immediately available for
comment Wednesday. A clerk said the store was besieged by
television film crews and head been bombarded by interview
requests.


Markell told the Daily News he was ready to get out of the gun
store business after Monday's tragedy. "I'd sell cheap today," he
told the newspaper.

