

Massive health care, schooling and job discrimination against
females are costing the Asia-Pacific region almost 80 billion
dollars a year, a UN report said Wednesday.


Restrictions on female access to employment cost the region up to
47 billion dollars, while up to 30 billion dollars a year are
lost because of lower female enrolment in schools, the report
said.


"Appalling disparities remain" in women's treatment in the
region, the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (UNESCAP) said in what officials called a ground-breaking
analysis released here.


"The economic cost of gender inequality is humungous," Samika
Sirimanne, the UN economist who headed the study into gender
inequality, told AFP.


The document was the first by the UN to seek to quantify
financially the cost of discrimination against females in the
region, rather than looking at the issue in a social light,
Sirimanne said.


"It's a wake-up call," she said.


India, which has the lowest female workforce participation, could
add a full percentage point a year to its annual economic growth
rate if its rate of women in work reached parity with the United
States, the report said.


"India loses about 19 billion dollars a year just because it
doesn't have more women in the workforce," said Sirimanne.


Malaysia and Indonesia could also gain significantly if they had
more women working, but in China the effect would be less as it
has a higher proportion of women workers.


Female primary school enrolment across the region was as much as
26 percent lower than for males, the report said, adding such
disparities were also reflected in access to health.


"The things to fix these problems can be implemented without too
much cost -- it requires vision and commitment at the top," said
Sirimanne.


"We're not talking about big infrastructure projects, just a
commitment that women can get to a hospital, girls can go to
school. The region is growing economically very quickly -- these
things should be happening," she said.


"Mobile clinics are not expensive," she added.


Economies in the region are seen growing by 7.4 percent in 2007,
according to UNESCAP.


"In 2007, the shocking thing is that in a number of places
maternal mortality numbers are going up rather than down,"
Sirimanne said.


The group also sounded the alarm over the shrinking female-to-
male ratio in the population, particularly in North and Central
Asia, South Asia and the Pacific island nations.


"In some countries one in every 10 girls dies before the age of
one, and one in every 50 women dies during pregnancy and
delivery," the report said.


"In any situation, the number of women should be higher than the
number of men, but in some places we see it is the other way
round -- the women are dying early," Sirimanne added.


Sirimanne said the study had not "even attempted to quantify the
economic costs" of such practices as female foeticide which,
while illegal, is widespread in India where sons are favoured
over daughters.


The report also said violence against women continues unabated,
indicating how "voiceless" women are in households and in
countries.


In the region, only seven countries had parliaments in which more
than 20 percent of representatives were women, with New Zealand
boasting the highest rate at 28 percent.


The report offered a host of solutions including free basic
schooling and adult education for women, as well as laws to
guarantee equal access to health care services and jobs.

