

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has abandoned plans to
address the UN Security Council ahead of a vote on fresh
sanctions against Tehran, with Washington angrily accused of
scuppering them.


Ahmadinejad had asked to address the council to defend his
country's position on its controversial nuclear programme, but an
official in Tehran said he will not travel to New York because
his visa would not arrive in time.


"President Ahmadinejad's trip has been made impossible because of
the lateness in supplying a visa by the United States," the
official told AFP late on Friday.


"Because of this, it is not possible to get the visa to Tehran on
time, and the president's trip has therefore become virtually
impossible.


"The United States deliberately issued the visas late to prevent
the president from going, and they are responsible. Also the
visas for the team members who would have accompanied him were
not issued, which makes the trip impossible," the official said.


Foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini accused
Washington of "deliberate and conscious negligence."


"The delays in granting the visas were planned in such a way that
the trip, given the particularly long distance involved, could
not take place," he said.


Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki, who is already in New York,
will speak in the president's place, a ministry spokesman said.


Washington denied any visa delays.


"We provided visas to President Ahmadinejad's delegation,
including his security and aircrew, in time for him to come to
New York and speak at the Security Council on Saturday," said
State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey.


"Any suggestion that visa issues are the cause of President
Ahmadinejad's decision not to travel to New York is false."


Casey also said Washington's UN mission "has been informed that
President Ahmadinejad has now decided not to come to New York."


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said an initial 39
visas -- 13 for diplomats and 26 for security staff -- had been
delivered in Bern. He said requests for another 33 visas for
Iranian crew were still being examined.


"It was one of these incidents when they failed to fill out all
the forms. But our folks in Bern are working as quickly as they
can to make sure that those visas get issued within the confines
of our host country obligations," he said.


Iran and the United States have not held diplomatic ties for the
past 27 years, and Switzerland takes care of US interests in
Iran.


Ahmadinejad had said he wanted to present what he called "new
proposals" about Tehran's nuclear programme.


Defying UN demands, Iran has refused to suspend its uranium
enrichment work and rejected accusations that it is striving to
produce nuclear weapons, insisting its programme is designed
solely to generate electricity.


The new resolution would ban Tehran from exporting arms, calls
for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


It builds on sanctions already adopted by the Security Council in
December, including a ban on the sale of nuclear and ballistic
missile-related materials to Iran and a freeze on financial
assets of Iranians involved in illicit atomic and ballistic
missile work.

