

Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq said Saturday he wanted to forget
the traumatic World Cup campaign which saw coach Bob Woolmer
murdered and his team knocked out in the first round.


"It's been a tournament which I and millions of Pakistan
supporters would like to forget, but it won't be as easy as it
looks," Inzamam told AFP by telephone from Montego Bay where the
Pakistan team is staying before they leave for home later
Saturday.


Pakistan lost their opening match to the West Indies by 54 runs
before suffering the ignominy of a three-wicket defeat at the
hands of debutants Ireland to crash out of the World Cup.


The following day, Woolmer died and his death has since become
the subject of a murder investigation. The Pakistan team has been
finger-printed and has had to provide DNA samples.


Inzamam, who also announced his retirement from one-day cricket
and relinquished the captaincy of the national team, said the
suffering had become unbearable.


"We failed to reach the second round and lost a great mentor who
was also an inspirational figure in the dressing room. I feel
Bob's loss much more than our elimination.


"My heart goes out to his family and I want to assure them on
behalf of the team and entire nation that in this tough time we
are right behind them. I will leave the Caribbean for the last
time (as a player) with a very heavy heart."


Inzamam said the team was in a good frame of mind when they came
to the Caribbean despite a poor build-up during which they lost
key fast bowlers Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif due to fitness
problems.


"When I landed here, I had high hopes but things changed and
became so tragic that we are still struggling to cope with them.
Most of the guys are still in a state of shock and when I try to
talk to them, I can see their blank faces.


"They are physically with me but not mentally."


Inzamam, second behind India's Sachin Tendulkar (14,847 runs from
384) on the all-time one-day run list with 11,739 runs in 378
intenationals, said his team was still a good side despite their
early elimination.


"I still believe my team was good enough but we just couldn't
click. I am disappointed that we failed to live up to our
supporters' expectations and also for Bob who gave his heart and
soul throughout his three years as coach, hoping that we could
fulfill his dream of winning the World Cup."


Inzamam believes Pakistan cricket can recover from the World Cup
trauma.


"Pakistan cricket is strong and I don't believe it is in a
crisis. In fact, I believe we will get stronger from here because
we have good cricketing brains to put everything back on track
and we have exceptionally talented players.


"The current Pakistan team has all the ingredients to beat any
team in the world. It's just a matter of getting our act
together. Over the years, Pakistan cricket has faced several
crisis and every time the team has come out of it successfully.


"That's the beauty of Pakistan cricket."


Inzamam said he didn't know his immediate plans after retirement.


"I haven't had a chance to think about my future because events
have happened so fast. But looking back at my career, I think
every match that I played was worth it.


"I had tough times but it came in the package I guess. I had the
honour of representing Pakistan for 16 years, the privilege of
playing against some of the greatest players, being part of the
1992 World Cup squad and most importantly the respect and
appreciation of the people.


"I couldn't have asked for more."


Inzamam also backed the organisers to continue with the World Cup
despite Woolmer's death.


"The World Cup is a great event and should go on despite the
tragedy because we cannot allow this sport to be held to ransom
by anybody. Bob would have wanted his event to be a huge success
and let's make him happy by supporting the competition."

