

Derick Hougaard kicked the Northern Bulls to their first ever win
in the notorious House of Pain here Saturday as they beat the
Otago Highlanders 22-13.


Although the South Africans dominated possession, they only
managed to score one try against the staunch Highlanders defence
and were left to rely on Hougaard for the rest of their points.


The Highlanders' ground has always been difficult for visiting
teams -- earning it the nickname House of Pain -- and the Bulls
broke through for the first time in six visits on the back of six
penalties from flyhalf Hougaard.


He also converted Jaco van der Westhuyzen's second-half touchdown
for a personal match tally of 17 points.


The Bulls set a further record with their performance, bouncing
back from last week's loss to the Canterbury Crusaders to become
the first South African side to win three on the road.


The Highlanders, who desperately needed a win to fuel any semi-
final hopes they may still hold, took nothing from the game.


They had a chance of a bonus point on full-time, when Bulls
skipper Victor Matfield was yellow-carded, but the opportunity to
finish within seven points was lost when the normally reliable
Nick Evans was astray with his penalty.


Just a few minutes earlier, Matfield had loudly read the riot act
to his forwards when referee Stuart Dickinson warned the next
Bull to deliberately slow play would be sent to the sin bin.


At that stage the Bulls forwards were starting to tire, and
although the Highlanders managed a late rally that resulted in a
try to their man-of-the- match Jimmy Cowan it was too little too
late.


The Highlanders had started with promise when Evans landed an
early penalty but they suffered from handling errors and poor
option taking restricted their attack opportunities.


At half-time, four Hougaard penalties to two for Evans saw the
Bulls ahead 12-6.


The Bulls piled on the points in the second half with another
Hougaard penalty and van der Westhuyzen's try to lead 22-6 by the
60th minute before the Highlanders revival produced Cowan's try.

