

A tiny quirk in one of the human body's approximately 25,000
genes may be the culprit behind one of the world's most common,
and painful, forms of arthritis, according to a study released
Sunday.


Among some 1,500 people tested in Japan, those carrying a
particular variant of a protein-secreting gene called GDF5 were
80 percent more likely to develop osteoarthritis of the hip, said
the study, published in Nature Genetics.


The presence of the variant, lead author Yoshinari Miyamoto and a
team of Japanese and Chinese researchers suggested, probably
reduced the production of the GDF5 gene, which plays a key role
in the development of cartilage in joints.


A parallel sampling of populations in China and Japan also
established a clear link between the same genetic irregularity
and the incidence of knee arthritis, though the correlation was
only half as strong.


Sometimes called "wear-and-tear" arthritis because of the damage
done to cartilage, osteoarthritis afflicts some 190 million
people around the world, including many in China and Japan,
according to the World Health Organization.


Ageing populations have increased the number of sufferers in the
developed world as well, including more than 20 million in the
United States.


Arthritis is caused by the breakdown of cartilage, which acts as
a cushion between bones that meet at a joint.


Beyond a certain stage of disintegration, bone grates against
bone, causing swelling, reduced mobility and no small measure of
pain.


The onset of the condition typically occurs in males around the
age of 45, and in females about tens years later in life.


The GDF5 gene, the authors explain, is "closely related to the
subfamily of bone morphogenetic proteins known to be involved in
joint formation."


Earlier research on mice and humans has shown that mutations can
cause abnormal development of the joints.


To examine the association with hip arthritis, Miyamoto and his
team sequenced DNA from 24 afflicted individuals and searched for
variations in the genetic coding called SNPs, or single
nucleotide polymorphisms.


Nucleotides are chemical compounds that form the basic building
blocks of DNA, which is 99 percent identical in all humans.


SNPs -- pronounced "snips" -- occur when a single nucleotide in
the genome differs between members of a species, or between
paired chromosomes in a given individual. They account for about
90 percent of all human genetic variation.


Once they had identified the suspect DNA sequence variations,
they repeated the tests on a much larger group of osteoarthritis
sufferers, and on a control group, firmly establishing the link
between the SNPs and the disease.


The study is careful to note that the links established between
the genetic variant and arthritis applied only to Asian
populations.


While it may apply more broadly, it is also true that a SNP
common in one geographical or ethnic group may be much rarer in
another.

