

About a third of Turks back Kurdish-language education and
broadcasts as a means of ending the two-decade Kurdish conflict
in Turkey, while a majority believe that combatting separatist
Kurdish rebels is the way out, a poll showed Saturday.


The survey, published in the popular Milliyet daily, found that
34.9 percent believe that granting the Kurdish minority the right
to education in its mother tongue would be a "right" way to
resolve the conflict, while the remaining respondants said it
would be "wrong."


Another 36.3 percent backed Kurdish-language broadcasts.


About 39 percent expressed support for removing a 10-percent
national threshold for parties to enter parliament, which has
kept Kurdish political movements from obtaining parliamentary
representation.


More people -- 42.4 percent -- were in favour of extending state
support to preserve Kurdish culture and traditions and 48.3
percent said the powers of local administrations should be
broadened.


A solid majority of 80.3 percent said "eradicating terrorism" is
the way to end the conflict, which has claimed more than 37,000
lives since the separatist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), listed
as a terrorist group by Ankara and much of the international
community, took up arms in 1984.


The survey was conducted by the Konda polling company among
48,000 people across Turkey in October.


Under European Union pressure, Turkey has in recent years
broadened Kurdish cultural freedoms, legalising the teaching of
the Kurdish language at private courses and allowing limited
Kurdish-language television and radio broadcasts.


But Kurdish activists say the reforms are inadequate and have
called notably for lowering the 10-percent election threshold and
granting general amnesty for PKK militants to encourage them to
end their armed campaign in the southeast.


Other parts of the poll, published in Milliyet this week,
projected the number of Kurds in Turkey at 11.5 million, or 15.7
percent of the 73-million-strong population.

