

Voters in Australia's most populous state re-elected the centre-
left Labor Party Saturday in a poll closely scrutinised by
powerbrokers in Canberra ahead of a national ballot later this
year.


More than 4.3 million voters in New South Wales cast ballots in
an election battle between the incumbent Labor Party and a
conservative Liberal-National coalition seeking to end 12 years
in opposition in the state.


Coalition leader Peter Debnam conceded defeat late Saturday.


"The people of NSW have given Labor one last chance to fix the
problems in this state," he said.


The election was met with widespread cynicism amongst the
electorate, with opinion polls showing the deeply unpopular Labor
government won largely because voters doubted the opposition's
competence to take over.


The Daily Telegraph said it was an uninspiring choice between
Premier Morris Iemma, seen as a grey bureaucrat, and the
coalition's Debnam, ridiculed for holding press conferences on
the beach wearing his Speedo swimming trunks.


"It's hard to envisage a more tired, rotten, arrogant, useless
government than this lot," the newspaper said.


"Equally, it's hard to remember a worse campaign than that run by
the tragi- comic NSW Liberals and their Speedo-clad leader, who
decided five weeks ago to unleash himself on the voters without
any pants on."


The political balance in New South Wales is the opposite of the
situation at the national level, where the conservative coalition
had held power for a decade.


But pundits were closely watching Prime Minister John Howard's
home state for any signs of a mood for change in the electorate
as preparations begin for a national ballot at the end of the
year.


The Australian newspaper contrasted the recently-installed
federal Labor leader Kevin Rudd's dynamic performance since
taking over with the hapless NSW opposition, saying he was giving
the public genuine reasons to vote for him.


"It appears politics in Australia is changing, that the old adage
that governments lose, rather than oppositions win elections no
longer applies," it said.


One intriguing contest in the NSW election involved former terror
suspect Mamdouh Habib, who was jailed for more than three years
in the US military's Guantanamo Bay prison before being released
without charge in 2005.


He contested the ethnically-diverse Sydney seat of Auburn, saying
he wants to voice his opposition to Australia's participation in
the Iraq war and the alleged persecution of the country's Muslims
under counter-terrorism laws.


Habib, who is running as an independent, had made little headway
late Saturday into the Labor Party's 26.5 percent majority in the
seat.

