

Brian Lara is thrilled with the momentum West Indies are carrying
into the Super Eights of the World Cup.


West Indies completed an eight-wicket victory over Ireland in
their final Group D match on Friday at Sabina Park which gave
them a perfect record of three wins out of three in the first
round and a maximum six points.


"We are heading into the second round feeling very comfortable
and we will be picking up some momentum," Lara told reporters.


"We considered this game a Super Eight game. The win was
important as well as ensuring that we had a very good run-rate at
the end of it.


"I know it is a different class of opponents in our next game on
Tuesday, but we've played well against Australia in the recent
past and we expect to do well if we play to our strengths."


Shivnarine Chanderpaul stroked his sixth one-day international
hundred, an undefeated 102 from 113 balls, to guide West Indies
over the line against the Irish.


"It's coming together, and everyone has had an opportunity," Lara
said.


"There have been teams where players haven't had an opportunity
because they were so good. All of our batters had a hit. We got
our seven bowlers having an opportunity. It is good for us, but
it is now for us to go out there and be more convincing.


"It is now for us to take hold of the situation, like Chanderpaul
did in this match with the bat. I'm really comfortable with the
guys in the field. We just need to up the ante a little bit with
the bat in hand."


Both West Indies and Ireland had already secured their passes to
the Super Eights, but the outcome of the match was vital, since
it allows the World Cup hosts to carry a two-point bonus into the
next stage.


"I thought we played solid cricket throughout the three games,
Lara said.


"It was a pretty tough group. Ireland played good cricket.
Zimbabwe thought they had a chance at some point. We were very
consistent.


"We're building to the point where we want to get onto the bigger
games, the Australians, the South Africans, the biggest teams in
the tournament. So far we've performed really well. I'm proud of
the guys."


West Indies will feature in the opening match of the Super Eight
stage of the competition, when they face defending champions
Australia on Tuesday at the new Vivian Richards Stadium in
Antigua.

