

Taliban fighters attacked police posts in southern and
southeastern Afghanistan overnight, sparking battles that left 16
rebels and five policemen dead, police said Saturday.


The attacks occurred late Friday, the same day a commander
announced Taliban fighters had ambushed a convoy ferrying
supplies to foreign troops, killing at least 14 guards and
drivers in one of the biggest incidents of its kind.


Insurgents stormed a police post near the Uruzgan capital Tirin
Kot, touching off a battle that lasted hours, provincial police
chief General Mohammad Qasim told AFP.


"Five Taliban and two police were killed and another 10 Taliban
and four police were wounded," he said.


Taliban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi said the movement was
responsible.


In a separate incident, the Islamist militants attacked a police
post on the Kabul-Kandahar highway in Qalat, capital of Zabul
province, police detection commander Mohammad Asif told AFP.


"Two Taliban were killed and six wounded. Luckily there were no
casualties to police forces."


In a similar attack in southeastern Khost province, one policeman
and five militants were killed in a four-hour battle in Gurbuz
district on the border with Pakistan late Friday, police
commander Basheer Ahmad Kochi told AFP.


In neighbouring Paktika province, Islamist fighters attacked a
border police convoy with a roadside bomb, killing two policemen
and wounding another five, provincial governor Mohammad Akram
Khepelwak told AFP.


"Following the blast, police launched an operation in the area
they clashed with the enemy and killed four enemy elements,"
Khepelwak said.


Taliban militants have stepped up their attacks in the past weeks
although military officials reject the rebels' talk of a "spring
offensive" as propaganda.


The ambush on the supply convoy Friday was the biggest of such
attacks, which occur regularly but usually result in few or no
deaths or trucks being set alight.


Police said Saturday that 10 private Afghan security guards and
four drivers were killed. The commander of the pro-government
militia that had been guarding the convoy told AFP Friday 15
guards and and two drivers were killed.


Six trucks were burned to the ground and one taken by the
militants.


Afghan security forces have also stepped up their action against
the militants. They said they killed 69 in Helmand province on
Thursday in their first operation without foreign forces.

