

A massive truck bombing killed 20 Iraqis at a police station in
Bagdad on Saturday after a suicide bomber drove a lorry packed
with bricks into the heavily guarded compound, a security
official said.


Sixteen policemen, two detainees in police custody and two
civilians were among the dead, while another 26 people were taken
to hospital with injuries following the massive blast, the source
told AFP on condition of anonymity.


The bomber penetrated the heavily guarded police compound in the
southern district of Dura by driving a large lorry weighed down
with bricks, raising no suspicion given ongoing construction work
at the compound, the official said.


He managed to steer the truck past the first police checkpoint
before blowing up both himself and the truck, gouging a giant
crater out of the ground just outside the main police station
building, said an AFP photographer.


Dura, a known haunt of Al-Qaeda in Iraq fundamentalists, is one
of the most volatile districts of Baghdad where Iraqi and US
forces have concentrated raids under a massive security operation
launched last month to quell the capital.


Another three people were killed and seven others wounded,
including two women and a child, in a double mortar attack in the
nearby Abu Chir district.


South of Baghdad, five people were killed and 30 others wounded
in another truck bomb outside a small Shiite religious site just
as prayers were finishing in the mixed sectarian town of Al-
Haswa, a police source said.


Shrapnel and debris ripped through local shops in the attack,
which was quickly followed by four mortar rounds exploding in the
same area.


In insurgency-racked western Iraq, the US military said three
militants were killed in an air strike and 12 suspects captured
in raids targeting Al-Qaeda in Iraq and foreign fighter
facilitators.


The air strike was called in after a fighter detonated a suicide
vest, killing himself during a US-led operation to arrest him and
another three gunmen in a rural area southeast of Ar-Rutbah, the
military said.


After the three "terrorists" escaped in a vehicle, a US warplane
carried out an air strike killing all of three inside.


Elsewhere in Al-Anbar, Iraq's desert province that neighbours
Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Syria, four Iraqi soldiers were killed
when a roadside bomb exploded in the former rebel bastion of
Fallujah, said police Captain Ahmed Faisal.


Insurgent attacks have continued throughout Baghdad and Iraq
despite an ongoing US-led security operation launched last month
in and around the capital to curb the insurgent and sectarian
bloodshed.

