

Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe has urged his supporters to
gear up for presidential and parliamentary polls next year, the
state newspaper reported Saturday.


The veteran ruler said there was a general view in his ruling
party that presidential elections be held as scheduled in 2008
and not postponed to 2010 as proposed by some members of the
Zanu-PF party in order to have concurrent presidential and
parliamentary polls.


"I think the view again is that 2008 is preferable," the state-
owned Herald newspaper quoted Mugabe as telling a meeting of the
governing party women's league in Harare.


"Some of our lawyers are saying this will not give problems. If
we are going to have an election, we must start mobilising now,
now, now."


Mugabe said in an interview with a Namibian-based weekly a
fortnight ago that he intends to stand for another term if his
party endorses him as its candidate for next year's presidential
elections.


The 83-year-old who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence from
Britain in 1980 had originally indicated he would step down when
his term expires next year.


Local representatives from his ZANU-PF party passed resolutions
in December last year to extend his rule by two more years to
allow the concurrent holding of presidential and parliamentary
polls, but the move has still to be approved by the party's
powerful central committee and parliament.


The central committee is expected to decided on the elections
when it meets in the capital on Wednesday.


Mugabe has vowed his strongest opponent, Morgan Tsvangirai of the
opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), would never rule
Zimbabwe "as long as I am alive" castigating him as a stooge of
the West.


Mugabe fell out with western governments after embarking on
controversial land reforms which saw the state seizing farms from
nearly 4,000 white farmers for redistribution to landless blacks.


The relations were further strained following the country's
presidential polls in 2002 which Western observers charged were
rigged to hand Mugabe victory.

