

Second half substitute Craig Beattie struck a late winner to hand
Scotland a precious 2-1 home win against Georgia in their Euro
2008 qualifier here on Saturday.


It was Alex McLeish's first game in charge of the national team
since taking over from Walter Smith, and this welcome win will
give the Scots a huge boost ahead of a potentially trickier
fixture in Italy in midweek.


Rangers striker Kris Boyd had put the home side ahead however a
former star of the Ibrox club, Shota Arveladze, equalised before
the break for the visitors.


Scotland dominated a shaky second half and in the last 20 minutes
spurned two chances to pull ahead.


With two minutes to full time a share of the points looked on the
cards before Beattie, who had replaced Boyd in the 75th minute,
smashed in a dramatic winner to send the Tartan Army into
raptures.


Scotland were looking for their fourth win out five games to stay
top in Group B and were quickly on the offensive.


Celtic defender Stephen McManus almost put the Scots in front in
the fifth minute when he got on the end of club teammate Paul
Hartley's cross, but his downward header flashed just wide.


The home support making up the vast majority of the 50,850 crowd
did not have to wait long for the opener.


In the 11th minute Gary Teale collected the ball wide on the
right, looked up and curled in a cross towards the penalty spot
where Boyd was lurking.


The on-form Rangers forward, who scored a hat-trick for his club
a fortnight ago, threw himself at the ball and sent a powerful
header into the corner of the net beyond Georgia goalkeeper
George Lomaia.


Scotland were well in control and they missed a glorious chance
to take advantage in the 19th minute.


Wigan Athletic's Lee McCulloch tried a first-time shot from 20
yards but this was deflected into the path of Teale, unmarked six
yards from goal.


As the Georgia defenders waited for an offside decision which
never came, the Derby County player also seemed surprised there
was no whistle and his weak effort was comfortably saved by
Lomaia low to his right.


Kenny Miller had a chance in the 40th minute when Barry
Ferguson's pass was dummied by Boyd, sending the Celtic striker
clean through but instead of carrying the ball in on goal he
tried a first time effort from 18-yards which was easily saved by
Lomaia.


The home side were made to pay for this miss almost immediately.


Giorgi Demetradze received the ball wide on the left, twisted
away from Scotland right-back Graham Alexander before swinging in
a perfect cross for Arveladze to head past goalkeeper Craig
Gordon from six yards.


In the second half Scotland looked the more likely side to score
but Georgia were still dangerous on the counter-attack, and in
the 68th minute Levan Tskitishvili was allowed to stride towards
the goal before pulling a left-foot shot just wide.


Boyd was denied a second goal by the woodwork in the 69th minute
when Miller played the ball into his path on the edge of the box,
but his right-foot effort into the ground bounced over Lomaia and
rebounded off the crossbar.


A minute later the Rangers striker should have scored when Gary
Naismith's cross found him unmarked at the back post, only for
Boyd to completely miss the ball.


This was Boyd's last involvement in the game as he made way for
Celtic forward Beattie.


With time running out it appeared Scotland would have to settle
for a share of the points before their substitute struck in the
89th minute.


As Georgia attempted to clear from another Scotland attack
Naismith sent a looping header back into the penalty area which
was flicked on by Miller into the path of Beattie.


He took just a touch before sending a low left-foot shot into the
net past the outstretched keeper.

