

Controversial changes to Egypt's constitution are expected to be
approved on Monday in a referendum which a united opposition has
vowed to boycott and Washington has openly criticised.


Three months after they were proposed by President Hosni Mubarak
and only a week after their speedy adoption by parliament, some
32 million registered voters are called to the ballot boxes.


"These changes are crucial for the future of the country,"
Mubarak said Saturday at a rally organised in the southern city
of Assiut to defend the amendments.


Mubarak argues the 34 amended articles are essential to the
country's security but opposition parties and rights groups have
condemned them as an effort to prop up the regime.


Attempts by the opposition to protest parliament's abrupt passage
of the amendments and the decision to move the referendum forward
by 10 days were immediately squashed with several activists
arrested.


Billed by Mubarak as the "biggest and widest constitutional
amendments since 1980," the changes were branded as the "greatest
erosion of human rights in 26 years" by the London-based watchdog
Amnesty International.


The amendment of Article 179 has come in for particular criticism
since it would allow the authorities to arrest suspects, search
their homes, read their mail and tap their phones without a
warrant.


It would also allow the trial of civilians by military courts in
terrorism cases.


Another amendment will mean that future polls will be supervised
by an ill- defined "supreme independent council," repealing the
role of the country's independent-minded judges, widely credited
with minimising once-rampant fraud.


The Muslim Brotherhood, which controls a fifth of parliament,
urged a boycott of the referendum which was echoed by other
opposition groups such as the liberal Al-Wafd, the leftist
Tagammu and the Nasserist Karama.


One amendment was seen as specifically targeting the Islamist
movement since it forbids the formation of political parties on a
religious basis.


The Muslim Brotherhood is officially outlawed in Egypt and has
been recently targeted by a series of police crackdowns.


"The reason it was done this way is because there is corruption
and there is an oppressive regime trying to ensure its future and
ensure a gradual and smooth transfer of power to Mubarak Junior,"
Brotherhood MP Hazem Faruq told AFP.


The president's 42-year-old son Gamal has been increasing his
influence within the regime in recent years and is widely seen as
the most likely successor to his father despite his repeated
denials.


The constitutional amendments were passed as observers accused
Washington of having eased the pressure on its Egyptian allies
for significant democratic change.


But US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice -- who arrived in
Egypt for talks Saturday and Sunday on regional developments --
expressed unequivocal reservations on the amendments.


"I'm really concerned about it," she told reporters Friday. "As
the Middle East moves toward greater openness and greater
pluralism and greater democratization, Egypt ought to be in the
lead of that. And it's disappointing that this has not happened."


The remarks earned Rice a sharp rebuke from Egypt, one of
Washington's key allies in the troubled Middle East.


"I will not accept pressures or orders or conditions," Mubarak
said Saturday, without naming the United States.


Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit was more explicit.
"The United States and Egypt have friendly and strategic
relations but Egypt cannot allow its friends' intervention in its
internal affairs," he said.


The amendments are widely expected to be approved by Monday's
referendum but observers, opposition parties and rights groups
have already questioned the credibility of the results.


"The fraud this time around will be even worse than the last
referendum," Brotherhood spokesman Issam al-Aryan said.


According to official results from the 2005 referendum -- which
was marred by police brutality targeting women protesters and
journalists -- turnout was 53 percent with 83 percent of voters
approving the amendments.


Judges who supervised many of the polling stations at the time,
however, estimated participation to be closer to three percent in
some areas.

