

The leader of the world's Anglicans on Saturday led more than one
thousand people through London to mark the 200th anniversary of
the abolition of the slave trade.


Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams, and his number two in
the Church of England, Archbishop of York John Sentamu, blessed
the crowd with a short prayer before the procession set off from
the Whitehall government district.


At the head of the marchers was a banner reading: "March of
Witness, Remembrance, Repentance, Restoration" while some bore
wooden crosses, according to an AFP reporter at the scene.


The march, which included people of all ages, Britons and foreign
guests, including many from Africa, passed the Houses of
Parliament in Westminster, where the law banning the trade in
slaves was passed on March 25, 1807.


On the banks of the River Thames, a wreath with the inscription
"2704" -- the number of British boats that left from London docks
to transport slaves across the North Atlantic Ocean -- was placed
on a boat.


The wreath was taken to the docks before being returned up river
for a bicentenary service on Tuesday at Westminster Abbey.


Williams said in a prayer: "We command to (God) all those who
died as a consequence of the slave trade -- in raids, in convoys
of captives, in the holds of prisons and of slave ships, in
labour and in loneliness."


The Church of England, which itself had slaves on plantations in
the Caribbean, made a formal apology last year for its
involvement.


Nearly three million black people are thought to have been
shipped across the North Atlantic Ocean in British slave boats
between 1700 and the start of the 19th century.


Trade in black slaves was banned throughout the British empire by
the 1807 law, imposing a fine of 100 pounds per slave found on
any British boat.


Slavery was completely outlawed in British colonies in 1833.


Among the walkers were a group who walked 250 miles (402
kilometres) in yokes and chains from Hull, north-eastern England,
the parliamentary seat of the abolitionist lawmaker William
Wilberforce.

