

Mozambique on Saturday began three days of national mourning
after an explosion at an arms depot in the capital left at least
96 people dead and more than 400 injured, many of them children.


Officials said the death toll could rise as they combed through
the rubble.


"There are still some bodies in the rubble. Once we have
recovered all the bodies, the number of deaths could pass 100,"
the head of the Maputo municipal council, Enneas Comiche, told
AFP.


Comiche said 81 people were killed instantly when a series of
bombs, mines and rounds of ammunition in the country's largest
arms depot exploded late Thursday and descended on nearby poor
neighborhoods, triggering fires and causing residents to flee in
panic. A further 15 later died of their injuries in hospital.


About 20 tonnes of obsolete arms and munitions dating from the
country's civil war, from 1976 to 1992, had been stockpiled in
the depot, set to be destroyed.


Mozambique flags flew at half staff in the streets of Maputo
Saturday, as the city in mourning was quieter than usual on the
weekend.


"The Defence Ministry along with the city of Maputo is
distributing leaflets to the families of the victims in order to
organise the funerals," said a deputy spokesman for the
presidency, Estefanio Muholove.


He added that soldiers were going through the neighborhoods near
the depot to collect the munitions that had not exploded.


Mozambique's Prime Minister Luisa Diogo visited the injured in
hospital on Saturday morning, local radio reported.


Most of the injured -- many of them children -- had to have limbs
amputed, while others suffered injuries to the head and burns
over 80 percent of their bodies, according to doctors at Maputo
hospitals.


An extraordinary cabinet meeting decided on Friday to declare
three days of national mourning and to set up an independent
commission of inquiry into the cause of the blasts, government
spokesman Luis Covane said.


Explosives had rocketed from the armoury, near the impoverished
neighbourhood of Magoanine, landing on nearby houses which went
up in flames.


Soaring daytime temperatures are thought to have caused the
blast, the government said.


The UNICEF representative in Mozambique, Leila Pakkala, expressed
concern Saturday about the danger to children from the
undetonated munitions.


"Experience in similar situations has shown that children in
particular are in danger of being injured by playing with arms
and mortars that have exploded," she said in a statement sent to
AFP's office in Johannesburg.


The UN children's agency also said it would spread information
through broadcasts and leaflets to warn the population and also
to assist in helping children suffering from the psychological
trauma of the disaster.


The explosion was the fourth of its kind -- with the highest
number of deaths and injured -- since the armoury was built by
the Soviets in the 1980s during the country's violent civil war.


President Armando Guebeza vowed at the scene of the explosion
that the government would relocate the armoury away from the
city.


"Naturally we have to accept what has happened and work to
resolve the problem," he said.

