

The Security Council was Saturday set to slap new UN sanctions on
Iran in a bid to pressure it into suspending sensitive atomic
fuel work seen as a covert grab for nuclear arms.


The 15-member body was set to meet at 3:00 pm (1900 GMT) after it
reached a broad agreement on Friday after week-long consultations
on an amended draft resolution sponsored by the five permanent
members of the Security Council and Germany.


The new resolution would expand sanctions imposed on Iran in
December for spurning repeated demands to freeze its uranium
enrichment program.


"We are confident that we will secure that resolution
unanimously," Britain's UN ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, one of
the sponsors, said late Friday.


Iranian Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki was expected to
attend the session and defend his country's right to conduct
uranium enrichment as enshrined in the nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty.


He was due to replace Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad who
late Friday canceled his plans to address the council, as Tehran
blamed Washington for delaying his visa, a charge denied by US
officials.


The UN vote comes amid a diplomatic row between Iran and Britain
after 15 British navy personnel were seized by Iranian forces in
the Gulf Friday.


Iran said on Saturday that the 15 British service personnel had
admitted under questioning in Tehran to violating its territorial
waters and rejected demands from London for their swift release.


"They are currently being questioned and have admitted to
violating the territorial waters of the Islamic repubic," Armed
forces general staff spokesman General Alireza Afshar told the
Fars agency.


The incident is yet another sign of the tensions between Iran and
world powers, but in New Delhi visiting former Iranian president
Mohammad Khatami called for talks to settle the crisis over
Iran's controversial atomic program.


"Iran will never go for nuclear weapons," Khatami told a press
conference in the Indian capital, according to the Indian Express
newspaper. "Weapons of mass destruction have never been our
objective."


Iran was always ready to give an "objective guarantee" on its
commitment not to develop nuclear weapons and the issue should be
solved "through negotiations," he added.


Tehran has repeatedly rejected charges that it is seeking to
develop nuclear weapons and adamantly refuses to give up uranium
enrichment which it says is aimed solely at generating
electricity.


The new draft UN resolution bans all Iranian arms exports,
freezes the overseas assets of 28 additional officials and
institutions linked to the Islamic Republic's nuclear and
ballistic missile programs, including senior officers of the
Elite Revolutionary Guards Corps and the state-owned Bank Sepah,
and restricts financial aid or loans to Tehran.


It gives Iran 60 days to comply with the repeated UN demands or
face "further appropriate measures" -- economic sanctions but no
military action -- under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


And it offers to suspend the sanctions once the UN atomic
monitoring agency has verified that the Islamic Republic has met
all its obligations, particularly by freezing all enrichment-
related and reprocessing activities.


The draft resolution was worked out last week by the five veto-
wielding permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and
the United States -- plus non-member Germany.


The text builds on the December sanctions which included a ban on
the sale of nuclear and ballistic missile-related materials to
Iran, foreign travel restrictions on Iranians involved in
sensitive atomic and ballistic missile work and a freeze on their
overseas assets.


An annex to the new resolution details the package of diplomatic
and economic incentives which the six powers presented to Iran
last June to coax it into giving up uranium enrichment.

