

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jayawardene has told team-mates not to
rest on their laurels after qualifying for the World Cup second
round with an emphatic win over India.


"There is still room for us to improve. I think the conditions
will be different at different venues and we have to make sure we
don't sit back on what we have achieved now," he said.


"We now need to work much harder, improve ourselves and adapt to
the other conditions. We had a set of plans for this group stage,
how we wanted to play our cricket, especially in Trinidad, and we
executed them very well."


Sri Lanka marched into the next Super Eight stage with an all-win
record after beating India by 69 runs in their last match here on
Friday, carrying forward two crucial points in the process.


The victory tasted sweeter for Sri Lanka, especially after losing
eight of their last 10 one-day internationals in India.


"Any side at home is stronger. If you take us in Sri Lanka, we
are much stronger than anybody. So it is just a home advantage.
You know the wickets and you have the support of the crowds," he
said.


"When India are playing at home, they have 30,000-40,000 in most
of the stadiums, and in Kolkata you have 80,000 shouting for you.
So it is totally different.


"That is why I said when you guys asked me in India that we are
playing India in the World Cup and I said 'Yes, but not in India.
We are playing in the Caribbean'."


Jayawardene said his team's good performances away from home in
recent times had stood them well in this tournament.


"What we tried to do over the last year or so is that we tried to
play a lot of cricket away from home. We wanted to compete away
from home, improve ourselves and see where we can be," he said.


"The practice that we have been doing over the last 12 months has
groomed us to compete abroad, get adjusted to wickets and
conditions quickly and play some smart cricket."


Sri Lanka put in impressive performance away from home in recent
times, winning in England and then sharing a one-day series in
New Zealand.


Jayawardene conceded that he felt his team's total of 254-6 was
short of expectations against a strong Indian batting line-up,
but off-spinner Muttiah Muralitharan and left-arm paceman
Chaminda Vaas bowled really well.


"We knew how strong the Indian side was. They are a brilliant
side, but any team can go through a day like this. Obviously,
they have a class batting line-up. We also thought that 254 was
probably short," he said.


"But we managed to get a couple of early wickets and that put
pressure on  them. When you are chasing, it's important that you
have wickets in hand and I think that's where they went wrong.


"Rahul Dravid managed to keep one end intact, but Murali bowled
really well and Vaasi bowled really well upfront. A lot of credit
should go to our young guys as well for the way they batted in
really tough conditions."


Muralitharan grabbed three wickets and Vaas two as India were
bowled out for 185, with Dravid top-scoring with 60.


The Sri Lankan captain said his team now had a chance to go far
in the tournament, especially after carrying two points into the
next round.


"Our chances are pretty good once you carry two points from the
group we were in. When we started, everyone was talking about
this being the 'Group of Death'. So, to carry two points is
brilliant," said Jayawardene.


"There are some tough games. We just have to make sure we take
one game at a time, like we did in this group.


"I reckon three or four wins will probably secure a spot in the
last four. But we don't want to look at it that way because if
you are winning, it is a very good habit to have. We just want to
continue that."

