

Ten leading writers and thinkers on Saturday called on European
Union leaders to impose tough new sanctions on Sudan instead of
marking the bloc's 50th anniversary with lavish celebrations in
Germany.


In a letter to The Independent newspaper in Britain, the 10
intellectuals said it was an outrage that Europeans were
celebrating "while on a continent some few miles south of us the
most defenceless, dispossessed and weak are murdered in Sudan".


Instead, the EU should take a principled stance to prevent
further atrocities in Sudan's troubled western Darfur region,
where some 200,000 people have died and at least two million
displaced in a four-year civil war.


"The Europe which allowed Auschwitz and failed in Bosnia must not
tolerate the murder in Darfur," the letter said.


"Europe is more than a network of the political classes, more
than a first world economic hub and a bureaucratic excrescence.


"It is an inherited culture which sustains our shared belief in
the value and dignity of the human being.


"In the name of that common culture and those shared values, we
call upon the 27 leaders to impose immediately the most stringent
sanctions upon the leaders of the Sudanese regime."


Sanctions should include travel bans, asset freezing and trade
embargos of luxury goods, the signatories said.


"We must not once again betray our European civilization by
watching and waiting while another civilization in Africa is
destroyed.


"Let this action be our gift to ourselves and our proof of
ourselves. And when it is done, then let us celebrate together
with pride."


The letter was signed by the Italian academic and writer Umberto
Eco; the Italian actor, playwright and theatre director Dario Fo
and his wife, the actress Franca Rame; German author Gunter
Grass; the German philosopher and sociologist Jurgen Habermas;
the dramatist and former Czech president Vaclav Havel; Irish poet
Seamus Heaney; French philosopher Bernard Henri-Levy and British
playwrights Harold Pinter and Tom Stoppard.

