

Spain's El Pais hit out Saturday at the conservative opposition
Popular Party (PP) for boycotting the country's main media group
Prisa, which publishes the centre-left daily.


The PP Friday said it would have nothing to do with Prisa
publications unless the group's chairman Jesus Polanco apologises
for comparing the party's policies with those of late dictator
Francisco Franco.


In an editorial EL Pais said the PP was seeking "to intimidate
the Prisa group and its professional (journalists) and blackmail
them."


The party said Polanco's address at an annual general meeting
Thursday was "intolerable" after he criticised the PP for its
bitter opposition to the Socialist government's anti-terror
policies.


Polanco said the party's attitude stemmed from a "desire for
revenge" on Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero,
who came to office after a general election win just three days
after the March 2004 Madrid train bombings.


The then conservative government blamed the attacks on Basque
separatists ETA, in the face of evidence that Islamic radicals
angry at Spain's military support for the United States in Iraq
were to blame.


Polanco accused the Popular Party of an attitude which smacked of
"pure Francoism."


"There are those who want to go back to the days of the civil
war," said Polanco, referring to the conflict which tore Spain
apart and led to Franco's nationalists taking power from 1939 to
his death in 1975.


A Popular Party statement said Polanco's comments were "totally
unjustified" and that the party would boycott interviews and
debates with Prisa-owned media outlets if Polanco did not
"publicly and unequivocally" withdraw his comments.


The statement was addressed specifically to Prisa shareholders,
advertisers and customers.


Prisa also controls private radio station Cadena Ser, generally
seen as close to the socialist-led government, as well as sports
daily AS and the Cuatro television broadcaster.


Other political parties and journalists' associations have also
condemned the PP's action.

