

Iraq has detained guards of Deputy Prime Minister Salam al-Zubayi
for interrogation after the government's top Sunni Arab official
was wounded in a bomb attack, an official said Saturday.


Brigadier General Qassim Musawi, spokesman of a massive Baghdad
security operation, told AFP that a full investigation had been
launched into the suicide attack and car bombing that hit Zubayi
on Friday.


"We have detained several of his security guards. Their
interrogation is on," Musawi said without revealing how many
guards were in custody.


He said the authorities had some "clues" that could lead them to
the "criminals who carried out this attack."


Dhafter al-Ani, a member of parliament for the National Concord
Front, the main Sunni bloc to which Zubayi also belongs, said the
suicide bomber came from the deputy prime minister's own security
detail.


"The suicide bomber was one of his bodyguards and he was
recruited by the Islamic State of Iraq. he was not related to
Zubayi," he told AFP.


A statement posted on the Internet in the name of the Islamic
State, a Sunni insurgent coalition led by Al-Qaeda's Iraq branch,
said it carried out Friday's twin bombing.


Musawi, who visited Zubayi in a US military hospital, said the
deputy premier had been admitted to intensive care but was now in
a stable condition following surgery to remove shrapnel from his
chest.


"I did not speak to him as he was in an intensive care unit, but
his condition is stable. He will be transferred to another ward
today," he said.


US military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver
confirmed that Zubayi was still a patient in the US military
hospital in Baghdad's heavily fortified Green Zone.


Zubayi, the most senior Sunni Arab in the Shiite-led government,
was wounded when a suicide bomber blew himself up while the
deputy premier was praying at a mosque inside his residential
compound.


The suicide bomb attack was followed minutes later by a car
bombing in the compound. The double attack killed nine people and
wounded 15 others.

