

Iran's ambassador to London was on Saturday summoned to hear a
new demand from Britain for the release of 15 British naval
personnel seized by Iranian forces in the Gulf, the Foreign
Office said.


Junior foreign minister Lord David Triesman met Rasoul Movahedian
at the ministry for about one hour Saturday morning in what a
spokesman told AFP were "frank, but polite" talks about the 14
men and one woman's detention.


"He (Triesman) reiterated the United Kingdom's demand for the
immediate release of the detained personnel and their equipment,"
he added.


Further meetings would demand on developments, the spokesman
said. Movahedian met a senior civil servant at the Foreign Office
on Friday, soon after the 15 were seized while conducting
"routine" anti-smuggling operations.


Meanwhile, families and colleagues of the eight Royal Navy
sailors and seven Royal Marines faced an anxious wait for news.


The semi-official Fars news agency in Iran said the 15 had been
taken to Tehran for questioning and had admitted illegally
entering Iranian territorial waters. London insists they were in
Iraqi territory at the time.


All are stationed aboard the British warship HMS Cornwall, which
is the base for coalition maritime security patrols in the
northern Gulf area.


BBC television reporter Ian Pannell, who is on board the ship,
told the broadcaster's News 24 channel Saturday that there was a
"high level of anxiety" among the crew over the fate of their
colleagues.


"The attitude at the moment is that they are looking at this
previous incident and they're hoping this will be resolved in a
similar manner," he added, referring to an incident in 2004 when
Iran seized eight British troops.


The eight were detained whilst training Iraqi forces on the Shatt
al-Arab, blindfolded and paraded before Iranian television
cameras, then released after three days.


"However, they are also aware that there is now a different
president in Iran and diplomatic relations are at a different
stage," Pannell said.


"They are hoping they will be released... but I think if you look
at the statements that have come out of Tehran and also London,
it doesn't seem to be heading in that direction."


British newspapers Saturday speculated that Iran may be using the
15 as a bargaining chip as the United Nations prepares to vote on
new sanctions against Tehran over its disputed nuclear programme.

