

The ACT Brumbies romped to an emphatic 21-10 victory over the
hitherto unbeaten Coastal Sharks in a fast-paced Super 14
encounter here on Saturday.


It was the Australian team's best effort thus far in the southern
hemisphere inter-provincial rugby union tournament and their
first ever win in Durban.


The win takes the men from Canberra into the top half of the
points table. A combination of brilliant defence, slick handling
and impressive interplay between backs and forwards saw the
Brumbies hit back after going down to the Cheetahs a week
earlier.


It was the Sharks' first defeat in seven outings this year.


Led by a charging Jone Tawaki and Stephen Hoiles, the men from
Canberra dominated the first half to lead 18-0 at the turn-around
and while the home side put up a better fight in the second
period, the Brumbies still showed greater patience and
concentration in the final 40 minutes to come out on top.


Somewhat surprisingly it was the Brumbies who did all the playing
in the first 40 minutes and they were duly rewarded with two
well-taken tries.


The Sharks, who leave for their Australasian tour on Sunday, were
far from the team that had managed to score six straight wins in
a row in the first half of the competition.


They were rushed around the fringes of the rucks and mauls and
were never given the space and time to play the kind of rugby the
Durban faithful have come to expect in recent weeks.


Their tactical kicking was especially poor, with far too many
balls aimlessly hoofed up field which allowed the dangerous
running Brumbies backs to counter- attack.


The home side also made far too many handling errors to put the
Australians under any sort of pressure.


The Sharks best chance of a try in the first period came late in
the half after replacement centre Adrian Jacobs had sliced
through the Brumbies midfield, but a poor pass by Francois Steyn
to a flying JP Pietersen on the wing cost the side a certain five
points.


The slick handling by the Brumbies and their ability to hang on
to the ball for long periods also forced the Sharks into
committing late and high tackles which resulted in the visitors
winning a good number of penalties.


The big star for the Brumbies was Julian Huxley who contributed
no less than 13 of his team's 18 first half points.


He opened the scoring in the third minute with a try after
running onto a ball that had been chipped ahead by Mark Gerrard
and then added the extras with the conversion.


Seven minutes later Huxley extended the Brumbies' lead with a
penalty and then midway through the first period promising lock
Adam Wallace-Harrison went over in the left hand corner after
receiving an inside pass from George Smith to stretch his team's
lead to 15-0.


A further penalty by Huxley ensured the visitors enjoyed an 18-0
lead at the break.


The Sharks finally got onto the scoreboard early in the first
period with a Ruan Pienaar penalty, but Huxley soon struck his
third penalty to again restore an 18-point lead. The home team,
however, enjoyed the last say when Jacobs again found a way
through the visitors' defences to score a converted try on full
time.

