

India coach Greg Chappell has said he is not too concerned over
the repercussions of his team's dismal performance in the ongoing
World Cup in the Caribbean.


India virtually bowed out of the tournament after suffering a
69-run defeat against Sri Lanka in their last game here on
Friday, leaving millions of their fans back home in a state of
shock and despair.


Their surprise five-wicket defeat against Bangladesh in the first
game has already sparked unrest in some parts of the country.


"You've got to be concerned in light of the recent incidents, but
I am quite confident the systems are in place to look after the
security of the team and individuals involved," he said.


"When India wakes up tomorrow, there will be a lot of
disappointment and anger, but they should realise it's just a
game."


India skipper Rahul Dravid said he hoped the players would not be
harmed when they returned home.


"I'm not really worried about security and I hope the players
wouldn't be under any physical danger. To be honest, I don't
expect that to be the case. I am sure people will be
disappointed," he said.


"They have invested a lot of hope in this team and we haven't
delivered. So, they are entitled to be disappointed. But I just
hope that no-one in is in any physical danger."


Chappell said he was willing to own up some responsibility for
his team's failed campaign, which saw India put in their worst
performance since the 1979 edition in England.


India were the champions in 1983, semi-finalists in 1987 and
1996, and runners- up to Australia in the 2003 edition in South
Africa.


"I've to take some responsibility as a coach. Nothing's wrong
with the support coaching staff and the players who worked very
hard," he said.


Chappell also admitted his team failed to live up to expectations
after having prepared well for the tournament.


"We came here with huge expectations, but didn't live up to them.
The dressing- room is a quiet place at the moment," said the
former Australian Test batsman who took over as India coach in
2005.


"The team was under pressure and I think the pressure had a
bearing on what happened today. The pressure built up after the
Bangladesh game.


"Our bowlers did well today, but we did not have any good
partnerships. We could not perform when the time came."


India were bowled out for 185 chasing a 255-run target on a good
batting wicket at the Queen's Park Oval, with skipper Rahul
Dravid (60) and Virender Sehwag (48) alone defying the Sri Lankan
attack.


When asked what India were taking away from the World Cup,
Chappell said: "A lot of disappointment. It's one of the most
disappointing days in Indian cricket.


"There's a cause for serious introspection, but I believe it
should not start today."

