

Stand-in Ireland captain Kyle McCallan acknowledges that his side
faces a huge challenge in the Super Eight stage of the World Cup.


McCallan led Ireland on Friday against hosts West Indies in the
final Group D match because regular captain Trent Johnston had
not recovered from a jarred shoulder he suffered during the
side's stunning win over Pakistan last Saturday.


But it was a tough examination at Sabina Park which ended in an
eight-wicket defeat.


"We have the onus on us now to go into the Super Eights and not
be the whipping boys," said McCallan.


"I wouldn't say it's the fear, but it would be the one thing that
motivates us to go and compete.


"It is an adventure for us. This is totally unchartered waters.
By the end of this tournament, we will have played nine or 10
games against international, Test-class opposition and that can
only be good for Irish cricket in the long run."


Although their first match against a Test side finished in fairy-
tale fashion with a three-wicket win over Pakistan, the Irish
were crushed by the West Indies by eight wickets, and McCallan
recognises things will get tougher.


"We had a plan to bat first, get enough runs to put the West
Indies under pressure, and then squeeze them with stump-to-stump
bowling by our medium-pacers and field like we did against
Pakistan," he said.


"Unfortunately 183 wasn't enough to do that. We lost our way in
the middle of our innings and 183 meant that we needed to get
wickets early on and when we got Chris Gayle we thought maybe,
but you're not playing club cricket any more.


"Gayle is out and then Sarwan comes in and then you've got Marlon
Samuels and then Brian Lara so we were up against it, and I think
it was the lack of runs that caused the problem."


McCallan however, asserted that batting first was the correct
decision for his side.


"I wouldn't have changed what I did because I think it would have
been the Associate-side thing to do, you know, bowl first, get
your 50 overs in the field and then see how many runs you can
get," he said.


"We have plans to win matches. I don't think there was any
excessive movement with the new ball early on. I just thought we
allowed them to pressure us and squeeze us in the middle of the
innings."


Ireland meet either England or Kenya in their opening Super Eight
match next Friday at the Providence Stadium in Guyana.

