

Facing a threat of sanctions, Khartoum said Saturday its courts
were capable of dealing with Darfur war crimes and repeated its
rejection of the International Criminal Court's indictments of
two Sudanese nationals.


State Minister for Foreign Affairs Al-Samani al-Wasila said
authorities had meted out death sentences to culprits convicted
of war crimes, an indication of the government's crackdown on
such offences.


"(A judicial) committee that was formed in 2004 found them guilty
of committing war crimes ... the military were shot dead, the
civilians were hanged and others are in prison," he told a press
conference.


"We can assure everybody in the international community that the
judiciary system will take necessary steps to ensure justice
prevails in the Sudan," Wasila added.


Khartoum has refused to hand over militia leader Ali Kosheib and
Secretary of State for Humanitarian Affairs Ahmed Haroun, facing
ICC indictments for alleged crimes in Darfur, saying the panel
has no authority over national courts.


"The situation is not that the Sudanese government is hiding or
denying, we said this matter is under full consideration of the
judiciary," Wasila added, explaining that the ICC should be
"complementary, not a replacement" of the national courts.


"The investigations team said there is no case against him
(Haroun), but if there is any fresh (allegation) I can assure to
you anybody ... in the government can be re-investigated and
brought to court," he added.


The minister said Khartoum, which was among the first African
nations to get independence, had well-evolved and time-tested
laws that had helped build other countries' jurisprudence.


"We have a strong history of the judiciary system in Sudan. We
helped in building judicial systems in many African and Arab
countries," he added.


"We are a country that cannot be taken like that," Wasila
explained.


But the ICC's offensive against the Sudanese regime -- which
stands accused of genocide by Washington and of being responsible
for the world's worst ongoing humanitarian crisis -- has left
domestic political forces divided.


Diverging views within the unity cabinet itself were again
highlighted last week when Salva Kiir, the former southern rebel
leader turned first vice president, expressed his dissatisfaction
with Khartoum's policies in Darfur.


The war in Sudan's western region of Darfur erupted in 2003 when
rebels from minority tribes took up arms demanding a fair share
of national development.


The conflict has killed around 200,000 people and displaced more
than two million.


Western nations have called for more sanctions against President
Omar al- Beshir's regime, aimed at forcing it to let a UN-led
peacekeeping force into Darfur.


Beshir, who earlier this month backtracked on an agreement to let
20,000 peacekeepers into the region, accuses the West of wanting
to invade his country and plunder its resources.


Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, the former Sudanese
colonial master, drew flak for calling for a new regime of tough
United Nations sanctions.


"This is a typical example of the British negative behaviour
towards this problem since the start," Wasila explained.


"We hope that the British, because they know the situation very
well in Africa ... come foward with the help in development by
providing the very basic rights and health care and education
rather than sending these negative messages," Wasila added.

