

Britain's finance minister Gordon Brown has failed to convince
the electorate that he will make a good prime minister if and
when he takes over from Tony Blair, a poll in The Times said
Saturday.


A Populus poll conducted hours after Brown's 11th, and likely
final, budget to parliament on Wednesday suggested his popularity
had fallen since the question was last asked.


Only 30 percent said they thought Brown would make a good prime
minister -- 10 percent fewer than in December last year -- with
57 percent saying he would not be a good premier, up eight
percentage points on the last time around.


Brown's control of the nation's finances also took a knock: 53
percent said he had been a good chancellor of the exchequer --
four percent fewer than in December -- while 38 percent said he
had not been (up two percent).


And there was scepticism on the budget itself: despite Brown
announcing tax cuts, 48 percent said they would not make any
difference; 26 percent believed they would pay more tax; while
only 11 percent said they would pay less.


A majority of 60 percent said the measures had made no difference
to the way they would vote in the next general election, which is
due before 2010 at the latest, although 2009 is being seen as a
likely date.


Only eight percent said Brown had convinced them to vote Labour
at the next election; while 26 percent said he had had the
opposite effect.


Brown, who has been chancellor for nearly 10 years, is widely
expected to take over as Labour party leader when Tony Blair
steps down in the coming months.


As the head of the biggest party in parliament, he automatically
becomes prime minister, without a general election having to be
called.


But recent surveys suggest Brown and the governing Labour Party
are losing ground to the main opposition Conservative Party,
partly due to disaffection with Blair's administration but also
Brown's less media-friendly image.


Criticism of his management style has also resurfaced, with
Britain's former top civil servant accusing Brown this week of
displaying "Stalinist ruthlessness" in dealings with colleagues.


:: Populus interviewed 1,025 adults across Britain on Wednesday
and Thursday.

