

UN emergency relief coordinator John Holmes was blocked Saturday
by the Sudanese army from visiting a camp for the displaced in
war-torn Darfur during his first visit to the country, a UN
spokeswoman said.


After meeting with non-governmental organisations in the northern
Darfur town of Kutum, Holmes' convoy was stopped by a military
checkpoint from reaching Kassab refugee camp, said Dawn Blalock
of the UN's Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
(OCHA).


"Mr Holmes said he was very frustrated and quite annoyed and he
can understand now what the NGOs are experiencing," she said,
adding that he had had all the necessary permits and security
clearances.


She said that Holmes will bring the matter up before high-ranking
Sudanese officials.


The British diplomat succeeded Norwegian Jan Egeland on March 1
and arrived in Sudan on Wednesday for his first visit to the
country where he met with government officials before heading off
to Darfur.


Sudanese Foreign Minister Lam Akol said after meeting Holmes
Friday that his country would work to facilitate humanitarian
operations in Darfur.


The United Nations and non-governmental organisations have
repeatedly complained of difficult working conditions in Darfur,
blaming both Sudanese troops and rebel groups for the violence.


In a report published this month, the OCHA said that on January
1, the number of people internally displaced by the conflict had
topped two million.


On Wednesday, the United Nations Mission in Sudan (UNMIS) warned
that camps for internally displaced persons were nearing maximum
capacity, with 3,000 people uprooted in February alone.


"We simply cannot absorb any more displaced," said UNICEF country
representative Ted Chaiban, after a visit to Darfur.


Holmes' trip comes amid strong international pressure, mainly
from the United States, to get Sudan to accept UN troops in
Darfur, a proposal Khartoum has rejected.


Foreign ministry spokesman Ali Sadek, reiterated on Wednesday
Khartoum's position to "defend its sovereignty," and said Sudan
would not bow to the US threat of sanctions.


The United States "as a world power should use diplomacy to
establish security in the world," Sadek was quoted as saying by
the official SUNA agency, adding that "Sudan is open to dialogue
over the Darfur crisis."


The UN envoy's blocking comes at the start of new mission from UN
and African Union envoys, Jan Eliasson and Salim Ahmed Salim,
aimed at finding a political solution to the Darfur rebellion.


On Saturday the two envoys met with Akol and Majzoub al-Khalifa,
one of President Omar al-Beshir's assistants, and described
themselves as moderately optimistic on the chances of restarting
a dialogue between the government the rebel factions.

