

French nuclear group Areva denied Saturday a report in a German
magazine that a subsidiary was flouting United Nations sanctions
by providing Iran with enriched uranium.


In an article to be published Monday, Der Spiegel accuses French
company Eurodif of delivering 10 percent of its enriched uranium
to Iran from a French nuclear site at Pierrelatte in the south of
France.


In 1974, Iran invested more than one billion dollars in a joint
French-Iranian company specialising in uranium enrichment called
Sofidif, which itself owns 25 percent of Eurodif.


As a result, Iran holds indirectly about 10 percent of Eurodif,
which is 60 percent owned by Areva.


The Der Spiegel report quotes a study circulated by the European
Greens party, which it says reveals never before published
details of the partnership agreed between Tehran and the French
company.


According to the magazine, Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation, led
by Vice President Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, earns an annual seven
million euros (9.3 million dollars) from its share in the
company.


Areva did not deny that Iran was financially profiting from
Eurodif's enrichment activities but dismissed out of hand any
suggestion that the product was being transported to Iran.


"Iran has an indirect and ultra-minority share in Eurodif. This
participation is exclusively financial and has never led to a
delivery of enriched uranium to Iran," an Areva spokesman told
AFP.


"Everything is public knowledge..., so there is no willingness on
our part to start a useless war of words on the subject."


European Parliament member Rebecca Harms, a nuclear specialist,
told Der Spiegel it was "absurd that the UN, under pressure from
the United States, declares trade sanctions against Iran, while
Europe does nuclear business with it."


The UN Security Council is to vote Saturday on a draft resolution
calling for new sanctions against Iran for its refusal to suspend
sensitive nuclear activities trade, including the enrichment and
reprocessing of uranium.

