

The capital of the Democratic Republic of Congo was calm and
returning to normal Saturday following two days of deadly clashes
between rival political factions, the UN mission here said.


"Things were generally calm overnight, apart from some sporadic
gunfire. This morning, there was some firing for about 15 minutes
near the Kinshasa medical center," said Lieutenant-Colonel Didier
Rancher, military spokesman for the UN mission known as MONUC.


On Friday evening, MONUC said in a statement that "government
forces had restored order" while also deploring that the
situation had called for the use of force.


At least 60 people, most of them soldiers, have been killed in
Kinshasa since Thursday during clashes between government
soldiers and guards for ex-vice president and former warlord,
Jean-Pierre Bemba.


"The toll is surely much higher," a diplomatic source said.


Bemba, who lost the presidential election in October to Joseph
Kabila, has refused to have his vice-presidential bodyguard
integrated into the regular army, arguing that his personal
security could not be guaranteed.


When the clashes erupted, Bemba sought refuge in the South
African embassy in Kinshasa. The government has since issued an
arrest warrant for Bemba for high treason.


South Africa said on Saturday that Bemba had called for a truce.


Western security sources in the capital said 49 government troops
were killed in the fighting, and quoted commanders of Bemba's
bodyguard as saying their dead, wounded, missing or deserted
approached 400. Some of them have surrendered to the UN, with
their wives and children.


About 160 DRC nationals, including around 50 of Bemba's guards,
have sought refuge in neighboring Congo, according to Alice
Tsoumou-Gavouka, a Congolese government official.


Bemba was believed to have between 600 and 800 guards. About
2,000 DRC soldiers were sent in to force them out.


Neighborhoods in eastern Kinshasa were still locked down by the
army, which continued to pursue small bands of combatants who
were "short on munitions, deprived of their base and not in
contact with their commanders," a UN security source said.


Bemba's residence was occupied by soldiers Saturday. There were
signs of heavy fighting, with the windows broken and the walls
riddled with bullet holes. Dozens of stores in the area had been
looted.


Residents who fled were gathered at MONUC's headquarters
Saturday.


"We left when Bemba's house was attacked," the wife of a soldier
said. "I'm pregnant. I left with my 3-year-old child. I haven't
heard from my husband."

