

Former Iranian president Mohammad Khatami has pledged the Islamic
Republic will never develop nuclear weapons and called for the
crisis over Iran's atomic programme to be settled through talks,
a report said Saturday.


Khatami's appeal on Friday in the Indian capital, New Delhi, came
24 hours before the UN Security Council was set to slap new
sanctions on Iran over its refusal to suspend all uranium
enrichment activity.


"Iran will never go for nuclear weapons," Khatami told a media
conference in the city, according to the Indian Express
newspaper.


"Weapons of mass destruction have never been our objective," he
said.


Iran was always ready to give an "objective guarantee" on its
commitment not to develop nuclear weapons and the issue should be
solved "through negotiations," he added.


The "sensitive" region, which is already facing many problems
over Iraq and Palestine, does not need another crisis, he said.


Khatami reiterated that Iran was pursuing its nuclear energy
programme to meet its energy requirements.


"We have a huge reserve of oil and natural gas but it won't last
long. Many countries in the world see fossil fuels as harmful and
are looking for replacements," he said.


"Nuclear energy is the most accessible form of energy. We must
also make use of wind and solar energy, said Khatami, who met
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh later in the day.


Nuclear-armed and energy-hungry India, which has long-standing
ties with Iran, has repeatedly called for dialogue to resolve the
row over Tehran's suspected nuclear ambitions.


India, Pakistan and Iran are engaged in talks to build a
2,600-kilometre (1,600-mile) Iran-Pakistan-India gas pipeline for
Iranian natural gas.


However, earlier this month India banned all imports and exports
to and from Iran that could contribute to Tehran's nuclear
programme as a result of sanctions against Iran imposed by the
Security Council in December.


Security Council members reached broad agreement late Friday on a
draft resolution expanding the December sanctions after Iran
spurned demands to freeze its sensitive nuclear fuel work.


The draft resolution would ban Tehran from exporting arms, calls
for voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.

