

UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon held talks Saturday with
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak amid a flurry of diplomatic
activity aimed at reviving peace efforts in the troubled Middle
East.


"It is necessary for the international community to encourage
this ongoing peace process," Ban told a news conference after the
talks, on the second leg of his first tour of the Middle East
since taking office in January.


His visit comes after the formation of a new Palestinian unity
government embracing president Mahmud Abbas' Fatah faction and
the Islamist Hamas movement, sparking a spate of Western contacts
with Palestinian ministers for the first time in a year.


The UN chief urged the newly formed government to meet demands
set by the international community.


"We expect the national unity government would meet the
expectation of the international community for the peace and
security of the region," Ban said.


The Quartet of major players in the Middle East peace process --
the European Union, Russia, United Nations and United States --
said on Wednesday it would maintain the crippling aid freeze
imposed when Hamas first formed a government last March.


The UN chief will leave Egypt later Saturday for Israel and the
Palestinian territories where he is to meet with Abbas and
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert before heading to Jordan.


"My itinerary schedule does not include meeting with prime
minister Haniya," Ban told reporters.


He said, however, that he may hold talks with two leading
independent members of the new government, foreign minister Ziad
Abu Amr and finance minister Salam Fayyad.


On Friday, Ban met Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit in
Cairo and was also due to hold talks with Arab League Secretary
General Amr Mussa on Saturday.


He sees "a renewed dynamism in diplomacy in the Arab world" and
wants to "express his support to ongoing efforts to re-energise
the Middle East peace process", UN spokeswoman Michele Montas
said before the trip.


His visit comes ahead of next week's Arab League summit in Riyadh
where he is to address the opening session.


It also coincides with the arrival of US Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice in the southern Egyptian city of Aswan for talks
with foreign ministers of regional allies Egypt, Jordan, Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates -- the so-called Arab
Quartet.


In Aswan, Rice will try to persuade her Arab counterparts to
amend a five-year- old peace plan drafted by Saudi Arabia which
advocates full normalisation of relations in return for a full
withdrawal from occupied Arab land.


Israel has expressed renewed interest in the Arab initiative but
also voiced reservations over certain points.


Rice's efforts to convince Arabs to amend the plan to take
Israeli misgivings into consideration is likely to be a hard sell
after the Egyptian foreign minister made clear the plan was a
comprehensive blueprint that could not be cherrypicked.


Ban's first Middle East your since taking office three months ago
got off to a shaky start Thursday when a mortar shell rattled a
press conference he was giving with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki.


The explosion caused the UN chief to flinch but he insisted
Saturday that the expansion of the world body's presence in Iraq
was still being considered.


"We are now considering ... what the UN can do, including the
increase of presence of the UN in Iraq and also further assisting
the political, economic and social reconstruction," he said.

