

The Somali capital was calm Saturday with daily life slowly
returning to normal, after three days of deadly clashes between
Ethiopia-backed government troops and Islamist insurgents that
left a trail of casualities.


Public transport resumed and grocery shops reopened slowly in
blood-soaked Mogadishu, a day after a Belarussian cargo plane
also crashed near the city killing all 11 people on board.


However, Mogadishu, home to one million people, remained
virtually a ghost town after the fierce fighting which claimed 24
lives, and AFP correspondents saw soldiers patrolling the
sweltering seaside capital.


At the K4 junction, a notoriously volatile but strategic area of
southern Mogadishu, African Union peacekeepers, deployed to help
government troops regain control, had take up positions, some on
top of buildings.


In Kampala, the Ugandan military with more than 1,500
peacekeepers said it was not threatened by the escalating
attacks, some of which have been targeted at them. So far three
peacekeepers have been wounded.


"We are not threatened," Chief of Staff Aronda Nyakairima told
reporters.


"We will stay with Ethiopian troops. The transitional government
of Somalia is trying to complete the training of its force. The
situation is under control. We are committed as a force to do
what we are mandated to do in Somalia," he added.


The Ugandans are the first contigent of about 8,000 planned to be
deployed to help President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed extend his
tenuous control across the nation.


Somalia, a nation of about 10 million, has been wracked by
factional bloodletting since the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed
Siad Barre cleared the way for a deadly power struggle that has
scuppered more than 14 peacemaking attempts.


At least 24 people died this week and hundreds more were wounded
in three days of clashes, despite a brief truce Friday. On
Wednesday, angry residents dragged and burned soldiers in the
Mogadishu streets, a grisly reminder of the fate that befell US
special forces in the 1990s.


The government has vowed to keep on fighting until the insurgents
are defeated who in turn have said they will pursue their
attacks.


Dozens of people have died since January when Ethiopian-Somali
troops ousted an Islamist movement from south and central
Somalia, prompting a deadly guerrilla warfare.


On Friday, a Belarussian Ilyushin cargo plane chartered by the
African Union to bring engineers and equipment to Mogadishu to
repair another aircraft crashed north of the capital, killing 11
people.


"They are from Belarus," said Muhamoud Hussein Gudabaye, a local
government official.


The government lamented it had no means of preserving the bodies
appealed for Belarus to collect bodies or grant permission for
local burial.


Although widely believed to have been brought down by a rocket,
Somali Interior Minister Muhamoud Hamed Gulled said the
government was "still treating the matter as an accident, until a
further indication is made by an expert."


Two weeks ago, an Ilyushin-76, also chartered by the AU, caught
fire on landing but caused no casualties.


The government said it was a mechanical fault but Somali Islamist
fighters claimed responsibility.

