

Russia's unstoppable synchronised swimmers clinched their sixth
gold medal Saturday as Chinese diving queen Guo Jingjing began
her quest for an historic fourth 3m springboard world title.


Russia scooped six of seven world titles on offer here as the
synchronised swimming program ended with only France's Virginie
Dedieu preventing a clean sweep.


The eight-member Russian team scored 99.000 points to win the
team free routine crown, again relegating Spain (98.500) to
second and Japan (97.334) to third.


It means the Russians end the first week of the world swimming
championships at the top of the medal table with nine gold to
China's six. Germany and France each have one.


"How do all Russians celebrate? We will start today, wash off our
makeup and go for it. We will celebrate in Moscow, everywhere,"
said Russia's Olga Kuzhela, but admitted they were exhausted.


"We are unbelievably tired. We could hardly move our legs though
I'm sure you couldn't see that in the performance."


The other gold medal at stake Saturday was postponed until Sunday
after strong winds and a ferocious swell forced the women's 25km
open water race to be suspended at the half-way stage.


Gusts reaching 40 knots whipped up the seas in Port Phillip Bay
which made it impossible to continue, said organisers.


Germany's Britta Kamrau-Corestein was leading at the time.


Russia's Natalya Pankina, who was second when the race was
stopped, said she had never encountered such conditions.


"The waves were unreal. I couldn't understand anything. I was
being tossed back and forth, in every direction, couldn't tell
which way, from the back, from the side," she said.


"It was the first time for me to experience such a swim. I've
never seen anything like this."


While Russia has dominated synchronised swimming, China has been
unbeatable off the diving boards, winning six out of six gold so
far with their eye on a clean sweep of all 10.


Guo, whose private life has caused as much of a splash as her
performances in the pool, was in a class of her own in the 3m
springboard preliminaries and looks sure to add a seventh gold to
China's haul.


The photogenic 25-year-old Olympic champion led the field from
the first dive, stunning her competitors with a near perfect
second dive which achieved the best score of the preliminary
round, 76.50.


Guo ended with 356.10, more than 30 points ahead of second-placed
Anna Lindberg of Sweden, ranked three in the world.


But Guo's teammate and her customary strongest rival for the gold
medal, Wu Minxia, struggled to qualify for Sunday's semi-finals.


Wu, who won silver behind Guo at the 2004 Athens Olympics and the
2005 world championships in Montreal, only scored 36.00 on her
last dive, eventually qualifying 13th out of 18 divers.


Australian Sharleen Stratton finished in third. Canada's Blythe
Hartley, a double 1m springboard world champion, was sixth.


China's momentum continued in the men's 10m platform
preliminaries with Zhou Luxin the top qualifier with 537.60
points.


The main swimming events get underway on Sunday with Australia's
Grant Hackett the headline act as he attempts top defend his 400m
free style title.


French world record holder Laure Manaudou is the favourite in the
women's 400m freestyle. The men's and women's 4x100m relays will
also be raced.

