

Russian riot police detained dozens of Kremlin opponents
attempting to rally on Saturday in the city of Nizhny Novgorod in
defiance of a ban on their demonstration ahead of a key election
season.


The protesters, as well as photographers and cameramen at the
rally, were taken into waiting prison trucks and driven away as
hundreds of riot police surrounded a city centre square where the
rally was planned to be held.


Dozens of other protesters were forced off Gorky Square by lines
of riot police as a helicopter flew overhead and a policewoman
warned that anyone taking part in an unsanctioned rally would be
arrested.


The protest was organised by The Other Russia, a movement that
brings together a wide range of opposition groups and has held a
series of rallies against President Vladimir Putin's leadership
in recent months.


Organisers said that dozens of activists had also been detained
ahead of the demonstration in Nizhny Novgorod, a regional centre
some 380 kilometres (236 miles) east of Moscow.


Local authorities failed to give official permission for the
rally and set aside the square for a children's festival.
Organisers said protesting was their constitutional right.


"Give Back Choice to the People!" and "Give the Money Back to the
People!" read the slogans on pamphlets for the rally that also
criticised increases on utility bills and high taxes on small
businesses.


The protest movement is called "March of the Dissenters" and its
leaders include former Russian prime minister Mikhail Kasyanov,
ex-world chess champion Garry Kasparov and an independent
lawmaker, Vladimir Ryzhkov.


These opposition leaders denounce the dominance in Russian
political life of Putin and the ruling United Russia party and
have said that the opposition has no choice but to take to the
streets.


An unsanctioned rally organised by The Other Russia in Saint
Petersburg earlier this month drew 5,000 protesters. Dozens of
activists were arrested after protesters broke through police
lines and scuffles ensued.


Opposition activists say they face official harassment and
frequent arrests ahead of parliamentary elections in December and
a vote in March 2008 to elect Putin's successor.


Meanwhile Kremlin officials have warned about the dangers of a
new Russian revolution and "extremism," as well as denouncing
perceived foreign influence in Russia's political affairs.

