

European Union leaders gather in Berlin Saturday for a weekend of
EU-wide 50th anniversary celebrations, plagued by differences
over how the bloc should tackle the challenges ahead.


With concert halls and galleries around the continent holding
special events, leaders of the EU's three main institutions will
unveil Sunday the political centrepiece of the festivities: the
"Berlin Declaration."


Union in Europe has brought peace, prosperity and unity, a single
market, a euro currency that can be spent from Ireland to Greece,
and visa-free travel on low- cost airlines to help people do it.


But 50 years after the signing in 1957 of the Treaty of Rome,
which laid the foundation for today's EU, the almost half a
billion citizens need to be reassured about Europe's future
direction.


The declaration -- which starts with "We the citizens of the
European Union" -- was prepared behind closed doors by envoys
from the 27 member countries, without public consultation, and
will not be signed by the leaders themselves.


And if the EU needs to win back public confidence and to find a
way out of its constitutional impasse, it is not clear whether
the text will indeed help to achieve this.


EU Industry Commissioner Guenter Verheugen on Saturday said the
declaration must provide the "necessary impulse" to tackle
reform.


"The period of reflection is over, we are now rolling up our
sleaves. The time has come to tackle this," he told Inforadio.


European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso told the Italian
senate on Friday: "We need to inspire Europe's citizens with a
vision for the next 50 years."


Barroso will sign the declaration along with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, representing the member states as current EU
president, and European Parliament President Hans-Gert
Poettering.


The declaration is expected to list Europe's future challenges as
the fight against terrorism, poverty and racism, a new energy
policy and global warming.


And it will refer to the need for the bloc to find a settlement
to its institutional woes before 2009, when the next European
parliamentary elections will be held.


The EU has been suffering through a deep political malaise since
mid-2005, when French and Dutch voters rejected a planned
constitution, and the member countries do not agree about what
parts of it to keep.


The treaty was meant to simplify the way the EU operates as it
expands, and establish a longer-term president and a foreign
minister. It has been ratified by 18 member states, but all 27
must do so for it to enter force.


Its failure highlighted a deep gulf between the lofty ambitions
of the EU's elites and the concerns of citizens worried about
their jobs or the way the Union has expanded; especially attempts
to bring in mainly-Muslim Turkey.


But setting a goal on institutional reform has been
controversial.


"The fact that the declaration will be signed by the presidency,
the commission and the parliament is quite indicative," an
official from one member country said, on condition of anonymity.


"You will not see the British or the Polish or the Czechs for
that matter signing a declaration to that effect," he said.


Czech President Vaclav Klaus has criticized the process, saying
he "shares with the Czech government reserves about the way the
Berlin declaration was prepared," according to a statement
released late Friday by his spokesman Petr Hajek which followed
telephone talks with Merkel.


The other divisive issue -- continued EU enlargement -- is
skirted.


"The term 'enlargement' will not be mentioned," the presidency
official said, acknowledging that "the member states have
different positions" about how big the rich European club should
become.


Official events begin at 5:30 pm (1630 GMT) with a concert of the
Berlin Philharmonic conducted by Sir Simon Rattle.


They will close on Sunday, when the leaders are scheduled to pose
for a family photograph at the Brandenburg Gate, a symbol of
European unity, just yards from where the Berlin Wall divided
Germany.

