

European Union leaders gathered in Berlin Saturday for the bloc's
50th birthday celebrations, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel
warned of the need to reform the EU's institutions.


"We are delighted to be the hosts here in Berlin which is a
symbol of everything that has been achieved in Europe in the last
50 years," Merkel said at a meeting of conservative party
leaders, before events got underway.


But half a century after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, the
political foundation on which today's EU is built, the 27 member
countries are deeply divided over how best to tackle the task.


After EU citizens party through Saturday night in concert halls,
museums and clubs, Merkel and the chiefs of the European
Commission and parliament will ink a text on Sunday meant to turn
attention to the future.


The "Berlin Declaration" was drafted by envoys from the member
nations and though it avoids the divisive word constitution it
does state the need for the EU to resolve its institutional woes
before 2009.


The constitution would have simplified the way the EU operates as
its expands and put in place a longer-term president and a
foreign minister.


But it was rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands
two years ago, and has wallowed in political limbo ever since,
with no one really sure how to move forward.


Its failure highlighted a chasm between the lofty ambitions of
the EU's elites and the concerns of citizens more worried about
their jobs or the way the Union has expanded; especially attempts
to bring in mainly-Muslim Turkey.


Merkel has the unenviable task of trying to win back the
confidence of some half a billion EU citizens while managing the
demands of member countries not keen to move forward with the
same constitutional treaty.


"We're approaching the issue with optimism without overburdening
anyone. We take seriously the atmosphere in the various countries
and we take seriously the views of people in the various
countries," she told reporters.


Signs of stress were still evident in the run-up to the
celebrations.


Czech President Vaclav Klaus, after telephone talks with Merkel,
said he "shares with the Czech government reserves about the way
the Berlin declaration was prepared."


While Merkel wants to resolve the impasse before the next
European Parliament elections due in 2009, the Czech Republic
does not want to be committed to any calendar, as it holds the
EU's presidency in the first half of that year.


On Saturday, her difficulties were also summed up by Dutch Prime
Minister Jan Peter Balkenende. "The Netherlands say that they
want a contract for change but we do not need the word
constitution," he said.


Yet union in Europe has brought peace, prosperity and unity, a
single market, a euro currency that can be spent from Ireland to
Greece, and visa-free travel on low-cost airlines to help people
do it.


And former European Commission chief Jacques Delors on Saturday
told Germany's Die Welt newspaper: "The EU's biggest problem is
that the member states are incapable of making their people grasp
its reason to be and its successes."


Near Berlin's historic Brandenburg Gate, where the EU's party
will end in fireworks Sunday night, Guenter Fink, 59, from
Hamburg, inspected party preparations and said integration had
made Europe a safer place.


"I think if (German Chancellor Konrad) Adenauer and (French
President) Charles de Gaulle hadn't taken the small positive
steps at the start we could all have been sitting on a powder keg
in Europe.


"But I'm not sure at all that all the eastern European states
should be allowed to join because it is going to cost us so much
money to bring them up to the standard that we are at."


Official events start at 5:30 pm (1630 GMT) Saturday with a
concert of the Berlin Philharmonic under Sir Simon Rattle.

