

European Union leaders launched EU 50th anniversary celebrations
at the Berlin Philharmonic Saturday, as German Chancellor Angela
Merkel sought harmony over the future of the bloc.


With concert halls, galleries and clubs to open for the night
across the continent, Merkel signalled she would not spoil the
party by trying to force her allies to stick to a 2009 deadline
for the reform the EU so badly needs.


"We're approaching the issue with optimism without overburdening
anyone. We take seriously the atmosphere in the various countries
and we take seriously the views of people in the various
countries," she told reporters.


Smiling and looking relaxed in a silky, rose jacket, Merkel,
whose country currently holds the EU's rotating presidency,
welcomed the leaders for an evening of folksongs and a classical
concert led by Sir Simon Rattle.


But behind the festivities, half a century after the signing of
the Treaty of Rome; the political foundation on which today's EU
is built, the 27 member countries are deeply divided over how
best to tackle the years to come.


At the heart of the malaise is the failure of the EU's planned
constitution.


The treaty was meant to simplify the way the bloc works as it
expands but since its rejection in French and Dutch referenda two
years ago, the blueprint for the EU's future has lapsed into a
period of political limbo.


On Sunday, Merkel and the presidents of the European Commission
and parliament will sign a "Berlin Declaration" aimed at
reconciling half a billion people with the European project.


The two-page document praises the EU's past achievements -- like
bringing peace, prosperity and unity to much of the continent --
while setting out the major challenges for the future.


"The mourning and pause for reflection" about the constitution is
over, Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi said Friday.


The declaration was drafted by envoys from the member nations and
though it avoids the now divisive word constitution it does state
the need for the EU to resolve its institutional woes before
2009.


Signs of stress about the issue were evident just before the
celebrations.


Czech President Vaclav Klaus, after talks with Merkel, said he
"shares with the Czech government reserves about the way the
Berlin Declaration was prepared."


Merkel wants to resolve the impasse before European Parliament
elections due 2009, but the Czech Republic does not want to be
committed to any calendar, as it takes on the EU presidency in
the first half of that year.


On Saturday, her difficulties were also summed up by Dutch Prime
Minister Jan Peter Balkenende. "The Netherlands say that they
want a contract for change but we do not need the word
constitution," he said.


The issue could be raised again Saturday, once the concert is
over, during a dinner hosted by German President Horst Koehler.


At the Vatican, meanwhile, Pope Benedict XVI warned that Europe's
revival could be threatened if it forgets its Christian roots and
embraces a "peculiar form of apostasy."


Despite conservative pressure, religion is not mentioned in the
declaration.


Setting the need for reform aside, union in Europe has brought
peace, unity, prosperity, a single market, a euro currency that
can be spent from Ireland to Greece, and visa-free travel on low-
cost airlines.


Near Berlin's historic Brandenburg Gate, where the EU's party
will end with fireworks Sunday night, Guenter Fink, 59, from the
German city of Hamburg, said it was often forgotten that
integration had also made Europe a safer place.


He said that if West German chancellor Konrad Adenauer and French
president Charles de Gaulle had not pushed forward European unity
in the mid-1950s as the shattered continent recovered from World
War II "we could all have been sitting on a powder keg."


"But I'm not sure at all that all the eastern European states
should be allowed to join. It is going to cost us so much money
to bring them up to the standard that we are at," he said.

