

Families and colleagues of 15 British naval personnel seized by
Iran in the Gulf faced an anxious wait Saturday as efforts
continued to secure their release.


The defence ministry in London said late Friday that next-of-kin
of the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines involved
had been informed, as the tense stand-off between London and
Tehran continued.


The 15 -- 14 men and one woman, according to the BBC -- were all
stationed aboard the British warship HMS Cornwall, which is the
base for coalition maritime security patrols in the northern Gulf
area.


BBC television reporter Ian Pannell, who is on board the ship,
told the broadcaster's News 24 channel Saturday that there was a
"high level of anxiety" among the crew over the fate of their
colleagues.


"The attitude at the moment is that they are looking at this
previous incident and they're hoping this will be resolved in a
similar manner," he added, referring to an incident in 2004 when
Iran seized eight British troops.


The eight were detained whilst training Iraqi forces on the Shatt
al-Arab waterway dividing southern Iraq and Iran, blindfolded and
paraded before Iranian television cameras, then released after
three days.


"However, they are also aware that there is now a different
president in Iran and diplomatic relations are a different
stage," Pannell said.


"They are hoping they will be released... but I think if you look
at the statements that have come out of Tehran and also London,
it doesn't seem to be heading in that direction."


Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has demanded the
immediate and safe return of the 15, but Iran maintains they had
illegally entered Iranian waters.


British newspapers Saturday speculated that Iran may be using the
15 as a bargaining chip as the United Nations prepared to vote on
new sanctions against Tehran over its disputed nuclear programme.


The foreign and defence ministries in London told AFP Saturday
they would not be commenting until there were significant
developments.


Meanwhile, one of the eight British armed forces personnel seized
in 2004 recounted his experience, telling BBC News Online: "It
was very scary.


"At the time we didn't know what was going on, what was going to
happen or even if we would be released," he added, claiming that
at one point they were subjected to a mock execution in the
desert.

