

Stephen Ireland lifted the pressure on Republic of Ireland
manager Steve Staunton as his goal earned a crucial 1-0 Euro 2008
qualifying win over Wales on Saturday.


Ireland's strike earned him a place in the history books as the
first footballer to score at Croke Park, his country's
traditional venue for Gaelic football and hurling, which was
hosting a football match for the first time.


The Manchester City midfielder had grabbed the last minute winner
that ensured his team avoided an embarrassing draw against San
Marino in their last qualifier and he was the hero again here to
give Staunton a much-needed Group D victory that maintains their
hopes of reaching the finals.


Staunton has been under increasing pressure following Ireland's
mediocre start to their qualifying campaign and his cause was
hardly helped earlier this week when his former international
team-mate Roy Keane launched a withering attack on the national
team that included criticism of the manager.


Wales have made an even worse start to the group, which also
includes Germany and the Czech Republic, losing two of their
first three matches, including a 5-1 home humiliation against
Slovakia.


So it was no surprise that a nervous opening to the match was
short on goalmouth action. It took 14 minutes before the first
shot from either side. Even then, Robbie Keane's effort after a
mistake from Simon Davies drifted harmlessly wide of the far
post.


Ireland keeper Shay Given made a brave block to deny Craig
Bellamy after the Wales striker robbed Richard Dunne as he dwelt
on the ball. But that was the solitary significant attack from
John Toshack's team in the first half.


With the visitors posing so little threat, Ireland gradually
began to take control and Damien Duff looked set to score when
Keane's pass sent him clear, only for Danny Coyne to save well.


That move served notice of Keane's ability to carve open the
Wales defence, but they failed to heed the warning as the hosts
broke the deadlock in the 39th minute.


Keane's perfectly-weighted throughball gave Ireland the chance to
race clear of three defenders and dribble round Coyne before
slotting home from an acute angle for his third goal in four
internationals.


The Irish were quickly back on the attack after half-time as they
went for what would surely be a decisive second goal, with Lee
Carsley driving in a long range shot that deflected through to
Coyne.


Staunton suffered a blow midway through the half when Keane
picked up a booking for a foul on Carl Fletcher that rules him
out of Wednesday's match against Slovakia.


Kevin Doyle had come on as a substitute and he was close to
increasing Ireland's lead when his looping shot from the edge of
the area rattled Coyne's crossbar.


Keane was denied by Coyne in the final minutes as Ireland
finished strongly enough to suggest Staunton may be around for a
while yet.

