

Czech President Vaclav Klaus has criticised the way a declaration
for the European Union's 50th birthday has been drawn up and
expressed doubts that it reflected the common view of the bloc's
27 members.


Klaus "shares with the Czech government reserves about the way
the Berlin declaration was prepared," he said in a statement
released late Friday by his spokesman Petr Hajek which followed
telephone talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose
country holds the current EU presidency.


The leaders of the EU are to meet in Berlin from Saturday to mark
the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome on March 25. The
treaty is the cornerstone of the modern day EU.


Klaus believes the declaration "is not a true, common product of
the 27 member countries and that is why it probably will not be
signed by the heads of state and government," added the
statement.


The declaration is intended to be signed in the German capital
Sunday by the heads of the EU's three institutions: Merkel
representing the presidency, European Commission President Jose
Manuel Barroso and European Parliament President Hans-Gert
Poettering -- not by the leaders of the member states.


Klaus and Merkel, the host of the summit and whose government was
responsible for drawing up the declaration, had "detailed" talks
about the declaration, the statement said.


The Czech president, known as a euro-sceptic, would still be
going on Sunday to Berlin for the celebrations, his spokesman
said.


On Thursday, Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek criticised the
"lack of an open debate" on the Berlin declaration and insisted
it should make no mention of a deadline for efforts to agree a
new constitution.


Merkel is believed to want agreement on a constitution process
before European Parliament elections are held in 2009.


The Czech Republic will take over the EU presidency in 2009 and
could play a key role in the finalisation of any accord. It is
hostile to the constitution that was ratified by 18 nations but
was killed off when voters in France and the Netherlands rejected
it in referendums.

