

World champions Australia and South Africa, the world number one,
went head to head on Saturday, but even that mouthwatering
contest failed to ignite the fans' passion at Warner Park.


The organsiers had hoped the festive atmosphere would build up
for Saturday's final Group A match on this tiny island, but only
three-quarters of the 10,500 capacity stadium was full.


"We had hoped it would be a capaicty crowd and we still expect
that as the day goes on more and more people will come to fill
the stadium," said a member of the organising committee.


Some believe the one-sided matches earlier in the group have
destroyed the atmosphere here.


"What was the use of having no-contests like Australia-Scotland
opening the matches here in the St Kitts? They should have
scheduled bigger matches first like they did in Jamaica where the
West Indies played Pakistan," said Cosbert Hemmings, a spectator
at the stadium.


Scotland and the Netherlands lost their matches against Australia
and South Africa by big margins, contests which were played in a
ground just a third full.


"The high ticket prices may be a deterrent but for quality
cricket you have to pay," said Charles Wilkins, chairman of the
organising committee last week.


The high price stands, charging 90 US dollars, were not even
half-full but the cheaper ones of 25, 55 and 80 dollars
(including food and drinks) were the most filled with yellow
Australian shirts outnumbering green South African shirts.


"It boils down to the economy. The Australians are better off in
that - air fares, tickets and other things they are here in big
numbers," said Neil Delesca, who came from Durban.


Australian businessman Bruce David is here from Sydney with his
four sons who were all sporting Australian team shirts with
skipper Ricky Ponting's number 14.


"It is two in one - cruise and cricket," said David.


Warner Park, close to the beach, hosted its first one-day
international and Test -- both between the West Indies and India
-- last year and has since undergone a facelift of 18 million
dollars paid for by the Taiwan government.

