

Beijing is set to announce the appointment of Xi Jinping as the
ruling Communist Party's new Shanghai city boss, the South China
Morning Post reported Saturday, citing sources.


Xi, 53, the party secretary of Zhejiang, will take over from city
mayor and acting party secretary Han Zheng, who stepped in after
former Shanghai boss Chen Liangyu was fired and arrested for his
alleged role in the city's biggest corruption case.


The announcement of the appointment of Xi and of others to key
posts around the country could come as early as Saturday, the
Hong Kong newspaper said.


An official from the Shanghai government news office could not
immediately confirm the report, but said Beijing would soon make
an announcement.


If Xi is confirmed as the new Shanghai party secretary it is,
however, unclear whether Han would continue as mayor of China's
largest city, the paper said.


The move is seen as part of a major reshuffle of key posts by the
Chinese central government that clears the way for the
consolidation of President Hu Jintao's political power base, the
paper said.


Sweeping leadership changes are also expected in the municipality
of Tianjin and the provinces of Shandong, Qinghai and Shaanxi,
the paper said.


Zhang Gaoli, the party secretary of Shandong, will replace Zhang
Lichang as the party secretary of Tianjin, while Li Jianguo, the
party chief of Shaanxi, will succeed Zhang Gaoli as Shandong's
party boss, it said.


In addition, Zhao Leji, the party secretary of Qinghai, will
become the party secretary of Shaanxi, while Qiang Wei, a deputy
party secretary of Beijing, will become Qinghai's party
secretary.


Xi's appointment could also signal that the central government is
ready to close its graft-busting investigation into the misuse of
400 million dollars from Shanghai's pension fund that wound up in
real estate investment projects.


The case, which led to Chen's ouster in the highest-level firing
of a government official in more than a decade, came under the
banner of Hu's public pledge to combat rampant corruption among
the party's rank and file.


Nine government officials and businessmen involved in the graft
scandal have been expelled from the ruling Communist Party and
are awaiting criminal charges in the case.


Xi, the son of a former top government official, Xi Zhongxun, is
regarded as pro-business, the report said.

