

Recharged by the return of six All Blacks, the Canterbury
Crusaders shifted into a higher gear here Saturday as they beat
the Western Stormers 36-11 in their Super 14 rugby match.


The bonus-point win lifted the defending champions from fifth to
third on the ladder, level with the Northern Bulls and overtaking
the Western Force who have the weekend off.


After running below par through the first half of the season with
their star players away on a special World Cup conditioning
programme, the Crusaders back to full strength showed signs of
their full potential.


Although it wasn't a vintage performance from the most successful
team in the history of Super rugby, they did enough to display
their trademark talents of capitalising on turnover ball and
creating space at every opportunity.


Richie McCaw came out ahead of Schalk Burger in the murky world
of the breakdown, Chris Jack was in charge in the lineouts and
flyhalf Daniel Carter stamped his mark by setting up two tries
and kicking 16 points.


"You can't go past experience and between them there's a lot of
experience there and it was great for the younger guys to see
them come back and see what is expected," said captain Corey
Flynn.


"On the paddock they brought a lot of composure when we were
helter skelter and they really led the way."


The Crusaders scored four tries to one, earning the bonus point
with a Rico Gear touchdown in the final move of the game that
started on the Crusaders' line and swung from one end of the
field to the other.


Carter and Peter Grant traded penalties early in the game before
the first try which came from a kick of pin-point accuracy from
Carter to Scott Hamilton on the left wing who drew the last
defender and sent centre Casey Laulala over.


Minutes later Laulala gathered in a Carter chip kick and set up
Gear for the first of his two tries.


At half-time the Crusaders led 17-3 and apart from a brief flurry
straight after the resumption, the Stormers never threatened.


A try to De Wet Barry and another Grant penalty narrowed the gap
to 17-11, but from there it was all one-way traffic.


Carter landed three more penalties and converted a try by another
returning All Black Leon MacDonald to have the Crusaders up 31-11
before Gear put the icing on the cake with his second try at the
end.

