

Iran's ambassador to London has been summoned to hear a new
demand from Britain for the release of 15 British naval personnel
seized by Iranian forces in the Gulf, the Foreign Office said
Saturday.


Rasoul Movahedian was seen by a senior civil servant at the
Foreign Office on Friday, soon after the 14 men and one woman
from the Royal Navy and Royal Marines were taken, but in a sign
the stand-off is escalating, on Saturday he will meet junior
minister Lord David Triesman, a spokeswoman said.


"It (the meeting) will be a reiteration of the demands for their
immediate release," she told AFP, adding that the talks would
take place at the ministry, without specifying a time.


Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett summoned Movahedian for what
she said were "brisk but polite" talks after the 15 were seized
in the Shatt al-Arab waterway between Iran and Iraq Friday as
they conducted "routine" anti-smuggling operations.


Meanwhile, families and colleagues of the eight Royal Navy
sailors and seven Royal Marines faced an anxious wait for news.


The semi-official Fars news agency in Iran said the 15 had been
taken to Tehran for questioning for "failing to respect
international frontiers and for illegally entering Iranian
territorial waters".


All are stationed aboard the British warship HMS Cornwall, which
is the base for coalition maritime security patrols in the
northern Gulf area.


BBC television reporter Ian Pannell, who is on board the ship,
told the broadcaster's News 24 channel Saturday that there was a
"high level of anxiety" among the crew over the fate of their
colleagues.


"The attitude at the moment is that they are looking at this
previous incident and they're hoping this will be resolved in a
similar manner," he added, referring to an incident in 2004 when
Iran seized eight British troops.


The eight were detained whilst training Iraqi forces on the Shatt
al-Arab, blindfolded and paraded before Iranian television
cameras, then released after three days.


"However, they are also aware that there is now a different
president in Iran and diplomatic relations are at a different
stage," Pannell said.


"They are hoping they will be released... but I think if you look
at the statements that have come out of Tehran and also London,
it doesn't seem to be heading in that direction."


British newspapers Saturday speculated that Iran may be using the
15 as a bargaining chip as the United Nations prepares to vote on
new sanctions against Tehran over its disputed nuclear programme.

