

Japan's Miki Ando won her first women's singles title at the
world figure skating championships on Saturday.


Former and current world junior champions Mao Asada and South
Korea's Kim Yu-Na finished second and third respectively.


"The women's event is the last one of the week and I skated at
the very last start, so it was very difficult not to be nervous,"
said Ando, 19, with tears in her eyes.


"But I'm very happy that I scored my personal best and also did
in the short programme yesterday. I'm really happy that I became
the new world champion at the event held in Japan," added Ando.


Ando scored her personal best of 127.11 points for her free
skating to add to her personal best in the short programme for a
total of 195.09 points.


It was the first women's title for Japan since Yuka Sato's
victory in the 1994 championships, also held in Japan. Ando
became the third Japanese champion with, Midori Ito winning in
1989.


The 16-year-old Asada, fifth in the short programme Friday, gave
an immaculate performance to score a personal best of 133.13
points for a total of 194.45 points.


"I was very disappointed because I was in fifth after the short
programme. Also, I told everyone I will win with my perfect free
programme and I did it," said Asada.


"So, I am very satisfied with my performance. The crowd was very
nice. I was very impressed by myself. I love skating at home,"
she added.


The 16-year-old Kim, the Grand Prix Final winner, who started the
free skating with a 3.97-point lead, fell attempting a triple
Lutz-double toeloop combination to earn only 114.19 points for
186.14 points overall.


Kim said: "I was not at my best condition today and I missed a
few jumps due to the lack of energy. But for being injured into
this competition, I'm very happy with the way I skated and I'm
very satisfied.


"I think it was more of my health condition that affected me. My
legs felt very heavy today. I felt more pressure going into the
second Lutz and my legs were shaking towards the end," she added.


Defending champion Kimmie Meissner of the United States, 17,
ended in fourth with 180.23 points, while European champion
Carolina Kostner of Italy also suffered a fall to finish sixth
with 168.92 points.

