

Iraq was on Saturday interrogating detained bodyguards of Deputy
Prime Minister Salam al-Zubayi over a twin-bomb attack that kept
the government's top Sunni Arab in hospital for a second day.


The brazen attack inside Zubayi's heavily guarded personal
compound while he was praying on the Muslim day of rest has
exposed the perilous security of even top- ranking officials and
underscored tensions within the Sunni community.


Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki said he had ordered a full inquiry
into the suicide and car bombing that killed nine people,
including Zubayi's brother.


"We have ordered the interior ministry to conduct a detailed
investigation and find who is behind the attack," he told state
television.


"We have detained several of his security guards. Their
interrogation is on," Brigadier General Qassim Musawi, spokesman
of a massive security operation designed to quell the sectarian
war engulfing Baghdad, told AFP.


The authorities were chasing after some clues that may lead to
the "criminals who carried out this attack," he said without
revealing how many guards were in custody.


Dhafter al-Ani, a member of parliament for the National Concord
Front, the main Sunni bloc to which Zubayi belongs, charged that
the suicide bomber came from the deputy prime minister's own
security detail.


"The suicide bomber was one of his bodyguards and he was
recruited by the Islamic State of Iraq. He was not related to
Zubayi," he told AFP.


The Islamic State, a Sunni insurgent coalition led by Al-Qaeda's
Iraq branch, posted a statement on the Internet claiming that it
carried out Friday's bombing.


"We pray to God not to save the life of this inferior traitor who
sold his religion and his people for a cheap return," it
proclaimed on a website used by Islamic militant groups.


The group warned of more strikes on Iraqi government "traitors,"
alluding to politicians from Sunni Arab minority who believe the
key to reconciling the country's sectarian warfare lies in
joining the Shiite-led national government.


Sunnis, who account for about 20 percent of Iraq's population,
are increasingly polarised between political pragmatists and Al-
Qaeda-linked fundamentalists who are fighting US troops and the
country's 60 percent Shiites.


Iraqi Vice President Tareq al-Hashemi, himself a Sunni whose
position is more ceremonial than that of Zubayi, vowed that the
authorities would not yield to terrorism following the country's
latest high-profile assassination attempt.


"Regardless of what happened, we will continue our struggle to
enhance democracy and to ensure stability in my country
regardless of the terrorist attacks," he told reporters in Japan.


A security clampdown launched last month by 90,000 Iraqi and US
troops has seen a decline in execution-style killings, considered
the hallmark of Shiite militias, but bombings long favoured by
Sunni insurgents have continued.


Insurgents killed eight people and wounded more than a dozen in
attacks in Baghdad on Saturday, including a suicide truck bombing
targeting a police station in the restive southern district of
Dura, security officials said.


Four policemen and a civilian were killed in the truck bombing
while another three Iraqis died in a double mortar attack in the
Abu Chir district.


Musawi, who visited Zubayi in the US military hospital in
Baghdad's most secure Green Zone, said the deputy premier had
been admitted to intensive care but was now "stable" following
surgery to remove shrapnel from his chest.


"I did not speak to him as he was in an intensive care unit, but
his condition is stable. He will be transferred to another ward
today," he said.


Zubayi, 48, sustained chest and face injuries when a suicide
bomber blew himself up as the minister prayed at a mosque inside
his residential compound.


Just minutes later, a car bombing ripped through the compound.
The double attack killed nine people and wounded 15 others.


Zubayi, who is one of two deputy premiers, had recently
complained on pan-Arab television of being powerless in the
Shiite-dominated government.


The US military announced the death of one more soldier in Iraq
taking its losses since the March 2003 invasion to 3,229.

