

Oil prices were steady in Asian trade Monday as a stalemate
between Britain and Iran over captured sailors and a kidnapping
in Nigeria kept the market at seven- month highs, dealers said.


At 11:15 am (0315 GMT), New York's main oil futures contract,
light sweet crude for delivery in May, was two cents lower at
65.85 dollars a barrel from 65.87 dollars in late US trades
Friday.


Brent North Sea crude for May was nine cents higher at 68.19
dollars.


Prices have risen about five percent over the past week but
Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and Gertz Inc, said it
has not spiked even higher because the market feels the dispute
between Britain and Iran will be resolved without a disruption of
oil supplies.


Iran is the world's fourth-largest producer of crude.


Tehran broadcast new television footage of the detained British
naval personnel on Sunday as high emotions threatened to derail
diplomatic efforts to secure the release of the 15 sailors and
marines.


Top officials continued to trade barbs and Iranian students
protested outside the British embassy in Tehran.


Iran captured the 15 Royal Navy sailors and marines in the Gulf
on March 23.


Shum said the situation appears to have reached a stalemate.


"However, the risks certainly remain," he said.


The market was also watching Nigeria, where a British oil worker
was kidnapped Saturday, an industry source said.


A spokesman for Britain's Foreign Office confirmed that London
was aware of an incident in which a British national was
abducted.


The incident was a reminder that Nigeria, Africa's biggest crude
producer, could face more unrest, particularly with presidential
elections set for April 21, Shum said.


"Nigeria, on top of Iran, on top of relatively tight market
fundamentals, provides plenty of market-moving news," Shum said.
"So we expect quite a bit of volatility."


If Iran releases the British personnel, prices could immediately
drop "a few dollars" but further escalation of the war of words
between the two countries could provide plenty of room for
speculators, Shum said.

