

Following the death or capture of many top Al-Qaeda operatives in
the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, a new generation of
the group's leaders has emerged in Pakistan's tribal areas, The
New York Times reported on its website late Sunday.


Citing unnamed US intelligence and counterterrorism officials,
the newspaper said the phenomenon was causing surprise and dismay
within United States intelligence agencies.


US, European and Pakistani authorities have for months been
piecing together a picture of the new leadership as they gathered
evidence during terrorism investigations, the report said.


New information about Al-Qaeda's structure came through
intercepted communications between operatives in Pakistan's
tribal areas, the paper said.


Also important have been interrogations of suspects and material
evidence collected after a plot British and US investigators said
they averted last summer to destroy multiple commercial airliners
after takeoff from London, according to The Times.


The investigation into the airline plot has led officials to
conclude that an Egyptian paramilitary commander called Abu
Ubaidah al-Masri was the Al-Qaeda operative in Pakistan
orchestrating the attack, the report said.


Masri, a veteran of the wars in Afghanistan, is believed to
travel frequently over the rugged border between Pakistan and
Afghanistan, according to The Times.


He was long thought to be in charge of militia operations in the
Kunar Province of Afghanistan, but he emerged as one of Al-
Qaeda's senior operatives after the death of Abu Hamza Rabia,
another Egyptian who was killed by a missile strike in Pakistan
in 2005.


The evidence about Masri and a handful of other Qaeda figures has
led to a reassessment within the US intelligence community about
the strength of the group's core in Pakistan's tribal areas, and
its role in some of the most significant terrorism plots of the
past two years, the paper said.


US intelligence officials now believe that although the core Al-
Qaeda leadership was weakened as a result of a counterterrorism
campaign launched after the September 11 attacks, the blow was
not as crippling as once thought, The Times said.


The reassessment has brought new urgency to joint Pakistani and
US intelligence operations in Pakistan.


In February, Deputy CIA Director Stephen Kappes accompanied Vice
President Dick Cheney to Islamabad to present Pakistani President
Pervez Musharraf with intelligence on Al-Qaeda's growing
abilities and to develop a strategy to strike at training camps.

