

Australia's top swimming executive on Monday demanded "a head on
a platter" over the leaking to the media of details about
champion swimmer Ian Thorpe's irregular drug test result.


Thorpe, a global swimming star regarded as Australia's greatest
Olympian, was named by French sports newspaper L'Equipe as having
returned a drug test with abnormal levels of testosterone and
luteinising hormone last May.


An angry and upset Thorpe fronted a media conference on the
sidelines of the World Swimming Championships in Melbourne on
Sunday to deny any wrongdoing.


He said he was devastated at the damage the smear would do to his
reputation as a swimmer and as a supporter of drug-free sport.


"It is gut-wrenching. It really is," he said.


Thorpe, who retired from swimming in November, said there were
many innocent explanations for the presence of testosterone and
luteinising hormone in his sample, both naturally occurring
substances.


The 24-year-old vowed to hunt down whoever leaked his test
results to the media and said he would consider legal action.


"I'm not sure (where the leak originated) at the moment. I will
know and it won't be now," he said.


Australian Swimming executive director Glenn Tasker said Monday
the sport would seek to ensure those responsible for the leak
were punished.


"I think it behoves all the organisations involved... to find out
how this was leaked," Tasker told The Australian.


"I think we should have a head on a platter. We should know who
it is and there should be some punishment."


Speaking on commercial television, Tasker pointed the finger of
blame at the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), which handled
paperwork relating to the case.


"I certainly do believe that something has happened in Europe,
where as soon as the information was sent to CAS, that seems to
be where the leak has occurred," he told the Nine Network.


Tasker said the sport's governing body, FINA, would launch an
inquiry into how the leak occurred.


"FINA are as shocked about this as we are," he said. "We have an
indication from FINA that as soon as all of their staff are back
in Switzerland, which should be over the next 24 hours, they will
be beginning an investigation."


The Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority will also conduct an
internal investigation into how the test result became public.


On Sunday, Australian head coach Alan Thompson demanded the leak
be found to satisfy other swimmers that their test results were
confidential.


"There needs to be an investigation to find out how it happened,
why it happened and actions put in place to reaffirm to the
athletes that they have complete privacy and confidentiality in
all testing," he said.


But Thorpe, who began representing Australia when he was 14 and
went on to win five Olympic gold medals in freestyle and relay
events for his country, fears the damage to his reputation is
already done.


"It is already tarnished, it is as simple as that," he said.

