

Fourteen world records and a historic seven gold medals for
Michael Phelps here have set the scene for an all-out assault on
the Beijing Olympics by the best swimmers in the business.


With just 16 months until one of the most anticipated Games in
history, the world's top swimmers used their last major
championships to stake their claims.


All the signs from Melbourne point to more world records tumbling
in China where the United States are likely to dominate.


The Americans ended the eight days of world championship swimming
here with 20 gold medals, 13 silver and three bronze, riding
roughshod over traditional rivals Australia who won just nine
gold.


Eleven of the world records were set by the US, with only Italy's
Federica Pellegrini (200m freestyle), France's Laure Manaudou
(also 200m freestyle) and Australia's 4x100m women's medley relay
team gatecrashing the party.


The invincible Phelps won seven of the US gold, smashing five
world records along the way, and was only denied an eighth title
after an early changeover by Ian Crocker in the 4x100m medley
relay heats saw the US disqualified.


"This is probably one of the biggest meets of my career," Phelps
said.


"A good world championships sends you into the Olympic year
feeling confident and you want to keep everything rolling.


"This sets you up for what happens next year."


Phelps heads to Beijing with the aim of breaking Mark Spitz's
record seven gold medal haul from the Munich Olympics in 1972
following the 21-year-old's six titles in Athens in 2004.


His exploits in Melbourne made him the most decorated swimmer in
world championship history with 20 medals, ahead of Grant Hackett
who lost his 400-800-1500m freestyle titles here.


The underdone Australian admits he needs to knuckle down after
his marriage this month if he wants to reclaim his aura ahead of
Beijing.


"This has inspired me to want to get back to my best," said
Hackett.


While the US medal haul was split between men and women, with
Kate Ziegler, Katie Hoff and Natalie Coughlin also shining, the
Australian men won just one gold in the final event of the
championship.


Once again Libby Lenton (five gold) and breaststroke queen Leisel
Jones (three gold and one silver) dominated the women's program,
along with versatile French superstar Manaudou who won two gold
and two silver.


Lenton won the 50-100m freestyle and 100m butterfly while helping
her team triumph in the 4x100m medley and 4x100m freestyle
relays.


Jones scooped the 100-200m breaststroke double as well as the
medley relay title.


"At these championships I was able to put some important things
together and this is as important as a medal," said Lenton. "Here
I did so many things I wasn't able to do before."


Jones added: "This meet has helped me to deal with the pressure
going into Beijing. It is good practice for me."


Tunisia won its first-ever championships title (Oussama Mellouli
in the men's 800m freestyle) while Canada, South Africa, Sweden,
Poland and Ukraine also got swimmers on the gold medal podium.


Asian swimmers had some success, with the breakthrough of South
Korean 17-year- old Park Tae-Hwan, who beat Hackett to win the
400m freestyle title although he failed to qualify for the final
of the 1500m event.


Japan's Kosuke Kitajima capitalised on the absence of ill
American world rceord holder Brendan Hansen to reclaim his 200m
breaststroke world title after finishing second to the American
star swim over 100m.


Olympic hosts China failed to make an impact in the swimming pool
but once again ruled the diving boards, winning nine of the 10
gold on offer with only the men's 10m platform escaping them.

