

Taiwan opposition leader and presidential hopeful Ma Ying-jeou
goes on trial Tuesday for corruption in a case which could decide
the party's chances of winning next year's election, analysts
said.


Ma, former chairman of the leading opposition Kuomintang (KMT),
is expected to defend himself at the first court hearing.


A former justice minister and graft-buster, Ma was indicted in
February for allegedly misusing more than 11 million Taiwan
dollars (333,330 US) in expense accounts during his tenure as
Taipei mayor from 1998 to 2006.


He resigned as KMT chairman following the indictment, but
immediately announced his bid for the 2008 presidential elections
in a move which has unexpectedly boosted his popularity.


Ma has denied the graft charges, insisting that he acted exactly
the same as some 6,500 other government chiefs entitled to
special expenses.


Despite his indictment, polls have shown Ma remains the front-
runner against four heavyweights from the ruling Democratic
Progressive Party (DPP) who are seeking their party's nomination
for the presidential contest.


They include Vice President Annette Lu, Premier Su Tseng-chang,
former premier Frank Hsieh, and former party chairman Yu Hsyi-
kun.


"Should Ma be found guilty, it would not only be a deadly blow to
Ma but to the KMT," said professor George Tsai of National
Chengchi University.


"Now the DPP has four strong candidates ready to join the
presidential race. But look at the KMT. Is there a second one
from the KMT who can take on the competition?"


Ma would be placed in a very unfavorable position if the public
started to compare his case with the allegations of corruption
which have dogged President Chen Shui-bian and his family, said
Hsu Yung-ming, assistant research fellow of Taiwan's highest
academic body, Academia Sinica.


"What he says in the court would be scrutinised by the people,"
said Hsu.


And everything he says "could be used as evidence against him" by
DPP politicians in next year's presidential race, Hsu warned.


Ma was elected KMT chairman in July 2005 and oversaw the party's
landslide victory in local government chief elections five months
later.


After losing his job as justice minister in 1996 for waging a
battle against corruption which impressed the public but proved
unpopular with politicians, Ma was elected Taipei mayor in 1998
and won re-election in 2002. His second and final term ended on
December 15, 2006.


Ma has made clear his determination to run for the presidency
even if he is found guilty by the district court.


Should that happen, Ma would appeal and the legal procedure is
unlikely to be finished before the presidential vote in March
2008.


Prosecutors have asked the judges for leniency since they said Ma
had donated 15 million dollars to charity during the
investigation.


If convicted, he faces a minimum of seven years in jail.


Ma admitted last year one of his aides had swapped receipts in
claiming his mayoral expenses for 2003-2006 but denied any
attempt at embezzlement.


He has apologised for the "serious administrative flaws" but
denied prior knowledge of the aide's practice.


The scandal is the latest to engulf the island.


President Chen's wife Wu Shu-chen has been on trial for allegedly
embezzling 14.8 million dollars of state funds.

