

Tehran broadcast new television footage of detained British naval
personnel on Sunday as high emotions threatened to derail
diplomatic efforts to secure the release of the 15 sailors and
marines.


Top officials continued to trade barbs and Iranian students
staged a rock- and firecracker-throwing demonstration at the
British embassy in Tehran, while Iran's foreign ministry urged
the US president to steer clear of the matter.


Britain and Iran said they were engaged in direct talks but
Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the 15, who
are being held in a secret location and occasionally paraded on
state television allegedly confessing and apologising.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they were captured because they strayed into its territorial
waters.


Images broadcast on Iranian state television's Arabic language
channel late Sunday showed two of the naval personnel separately,
each standing in front of an Iranian chart of the northern Gulf
waters where they were seized on March 23.


One of them said he could understand why was Iran was "angry"
about "our intrusion into your waters," while the other pointed
to a place on the map where they were "apparently" taken captive
while "inside Iranian territorial waters." The footage with the
English audio was broadcast by Sky News in Britain; the audio was
not broadcast by Iranian television.


Even though the captives said they were being well-treated,
Britain was quick to condemn the new pictures as "unacceptable,"
a foreign ministry spokeswoman said.


US President George W. Bush, who has backed Britain in its
attempts to free the naval personnel, called the sailors and
marines "hostages" and urged their release on Saturday, words
which drew a harsh retort from Iran on Sunday.


"It is better for the US president to refrain from making ill-
considered, non- technical and irrational comments," state
television quoted foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali
Hosseini as saying.


Bush had told reporters there would be "no quid pro quos. The
Iranians must give back the hostages."


Washington has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held without charge since
January by US forces in Iraq.


The United States's ties with Tehran have been severed for
decades following the 1980 hostage crisis.


An Iranian military chief on Sunday accused US warplanes of
violating Iranian airspace in the southwestern oil province of
Khuzestan, charges that were denied by the US military.


Speaking in Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
dismissed suggestions that a US plan to strike Iran, Syria and
Lebanon was being coordinated with Washington's key ally in the
Middle East, Israel.


"Declarations that there is an American plan to strike Iran that
is being coordinated with Israel which would at the same time
attack Syria and Lebanon is not familiar to me, and is a baseless
rumour," Olmert said.


Meanwhile, the foreign ministers of Britain and Iran confirmed
that they are engaged in direct talks over the detentions.


Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne told BBC television that
Britain was doing everything it could to resolve the matter by
diplomatic means as soon as possible.


"We are in direct bilateral communication with the Iranians and
they know that not only are we in a very clear position but that
we have the support of almost all of the international
community."


Iran confirmed the direct talks, saying contacts had never been
cut.


"They were never cut and so there was no need to restart them,"
an Iranian official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


"Iran has never wanted to close the diplomatic path, unless the
British government creates such conditions."


Earlier in the day, firecrackers exploded inside the British
embassy compound in Tehran which was heavily guarded by anti-riot
police and scaffolding to keep the protesters, members of the
hardline Basij volunteer militia, at bay.


The students chanted "Death to Britain" and "Death to America"
and called for the 15 sailors and marines to be punished. Police
dispersed the crowd after two hours.


On Saturday, Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had again
called on Britain to apologise.


On Friday, European Union foreign ministers deplored the seizure
of the Britons as a breach of international law and threatened to
take "appropriate measures" if they were not freed soon.


The current EU president, German Chancellor Angela Merkel,
visiting Iran's arch- foe Israel on Sunday, said Britain had
Germany's full backing.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.

