

South Africa will treat their next World Cup Super Eight matches
against Ireland and Bangladesh as "huge" games which could clear
the way to the semi-finals, according to coach Mickey Arthur.


The Proteas have two points in the second round, courtesy of a
narrow one-wicket win over Sri Lanka. They could leave Guyana
with six points in the bag to get ready for crucial matches
against the West Indies and New Zealand in Grenada.


South Africa will then lock horns with a steady, but
unspectacular England, in their last Super Eights match in
Barbados.


But Arthur has warned against complacency against Ireland and
Bangladesh, two teams South Africa would normally be expected to
roll over.


"They are huge games because when you sit down and make plans for
the rest of the tournament, they are both 'banker' games and,
with games like that, there comes an added pressure," Arthur said
ahead of Tuesday's fixture against Ireland at Providence.


"If things go well, we would also hope to work a little bit on
our net run-rate because, in the event of two teams finishing
with the same number of points after the Super Eights, they will
be divided by their overall run rate.


"But first prize is to leave Guyana with six points - if we can
do that I'll be a very happy man," said Arthur, whose team were
given an early shock by debutants Ireland in a warm-up match in
Trinidad last month.


Irish skipper Trent Johnston (4-40) and Dave Langford-Smith
(3-30) reduced South Africa to 91-8 before Andrew Hall (67 not
out) and Robin Peterson (29) added 85 for the ninth wicket to
help their team post 192.


Ireland then batted well and were cruising towards the target
with 139-4 before being bowled out for 157.


Since that great escape against Ireland, the South Africa middle
order has yet to fire and came a cropper in their last Group A
match against Australia which they lost by 83 runs.


They were also let down by the middle order against Sri Lanka,
almost losing the match from a well-set 206-5 with Sri Lanka
paceman Lasith Malinga recording a unique four-in-four-ball feat
before the Proteas sneaked through.


It was a tense win which Arthur admitted had "taken quite a few
years off my life."


"At five wickets down with four runs needed to win, I started
packing away the kit bags, but then it suddenly became very
hectic. It was always going to take something extremely special
to derail us from there and Malinga certainly nearly delivered
it," Arthur said.


And a semi-final place is already on Arthur's mind.


"Based on current form I wouldn't mind staying away from
Australia in the semi- finals," said the coach.


"Right now I firmly believe the last four teams will be
Australia, Sri Lanka, New Zealand and South Africa based on what
I have seen but we still have an awful lot of work to do to be
sure of our place."


World number one South Africa are hoping their pace spearheads
Shaun Pollock and Makhaya Ntini get back to their lethal best
after being lacklustre in the earlier matches.


Pollock is particularly worrying, having conceded 83 in ten overs
against Australia and 46 off eight in the match against Sri
Lanka. He was also wicketless on both occasions.


Ireland captain Johnston said his team is not in awe of any
opposition.


"We gave a good account of ourselves in the match against England
and need to lift our performance by at least 25 percent in the
remaining matches," said Johnston whose team lost their first
Super Eights match against England by 48 runs.


"We played well in the warm-up match against South Africa and
then during our win over Pakistan (in the first round) so if we
can repeat those two performances we can achieve the best
results."

