

Martin Jol has warned Tottenham's strikers they must sharpen up
after his side made heavy weather of a 1-0 victory over Reading.


A controversial Robbie Keane penalty late in the first half was
all that seperated the teams at White Hart Lane on Sunday after
Spurs squandered a host of chances.


The victory lifted Jol's men into sixth place in the Premiership
and kept them firmly in the race for a UEFA Cup spot. But the
Dutch coach fears Spurs will miss out on European qualification
if they continue to be so wasteful in front of goal.


Keane, Dimitar Berbatov and Jermain Defoe all had golden
opportunities to score and, with a UEFA Cup quarter-final first
leg tie against Sevilla coming up on Thursday, they need to
improve quickly.


Jol said: "We had three big chances early on and in the second
half we had lots of chances to finish them off. We should have
got three or four goals.


"But this was a must-win game, so it was still a marvellous
result."


Keane won it for Spurs in the 40th minute when he stroked home a
penalty after referee Alan Wiley ruled that Reading defender Greg
Halford had handled.


Keane's miscontrol had bounced off his knee onto Halford's arm,
but the contact appeared inadvertent.


Reading's attacking approach earned praise from Jol, who added:
"They had good chances too. They put a lot of bodies forward and
took chances so credit to them.


"They are in the top eight because they are a terrific team who
get a lot of men forward. They play good football. With their
style it is always difficult and there is always pressure."


However, Tottenham could have been three goals ahead in the first
12 minutes. First Steed Malbranque hit the outside of a post from
Aaron Lennon's pass in the third minute.


Then Keane should have scored when Berbatov chested Lennon's
cross into his path, but the Irish striker's shot was too close
to Marcus Hahnemann.


Reading were under siege and it took another good stop from
Hahnemann to frustrate Spurs. Malbranque's pass gave Berbatov a
clear run on goal, but the Reading keeper was quickly off his
line to block the shot.


Those spurned chances nearly came back to haunt Spurs when Glen
Little's cross picked out Leroy Lita just six yards out, but the
striker could only direct his diving header onto the far post.


But Tottenham went ahead when Keane miscontrolled in the penalty
area and the ball bounced up onto Halford's arm,


Keane wasn't going to squander such a golden chance and the Spurs
captain confidently drove the penalty past Hahnemann for his 15th
goal of the season.


Reading boss Steve Coppell admitted he was frustrated by Wiley's
decision, especially as Michael Dawson could also have been
penalised for a handball when he tried to control a cross on his
chest.


But he took consolation from the way his side, in their first
season in the Premiership, once again refused to be overawed by
their opponents.


Coppell said: "I've seen it on video since and it hit his hand
for sure, but the players are saying the referee turned down the
first appeal and then gave it in an almost apologetic way.


"If you say it is a penalty every time it hits a hand then we
could have had one in the second half with Dawson, so we feel a
little bit hard done by.


"We had a real go. When we were 1-0 down we desperately tried to
get the goal and maybe that left us a bit open.


"But it's a measure of our progress that we don't just sit back
and capitulate. On a different day we might have got something."

