

The world's top climate scientists were gathering here Monday to
hammer out the summary of a massive report that predicts dire
consequences from global warming, especially for poor nations and
species diversity.


Even if dramatic measures are taken to reduce the carbon dioxide
(CO2) emissions that drive warming, temperatures will continue to
climb for decades to come, the experts conclude.


By 2080, according to the report, it is likely that 1.1 to 3.2
billion people worldwide will experience water scarcity, 200 to
600 million will be threatened by hunger, and each year an
additional two to seven million will be victims of coastal
flooding.


The brunt of these problems will fall squarely on to the world's
poorest inhabitants, who are least to blame for the fossil-fuel
pollution that drives global warming.


According to a final draft of the 1,400-page report obtained by
AFP, hundreds of millions of people living in more than three
dozen deltas -- including the Nile in Egypt, the Red River in
Vietnam and the Ganges-Brahmaputra in Bangladesh -- are likely to
find themselves wedged between rising sea levels and more
frequent flooding.


Tropical diseases are likely to spread as well.


The impact will be all the more devastating because most of these
countries lack the money and skills to adapt to the threat.


Indeed, if global temperatures rise no more than 2 C (3.6 F)
compared to 1990s levels, northern Europe and North America may
even enjoy higher crop yields, milder winters and expanding
forests.


The report by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) will be unveiled on Friday after its members have approved
a roughly 50-page summary for policymakers.


It assesses the past and future impact of rising temperatures on
the planet's physical and eco-systems and inhabitants. It also
evaluates the capacity to adapt to the predicted changes.


In February, the IPCC issued a first volume of its review with an
assessement of the scientific evidence for global warming. It
predicted temperatures would probably rise between 1.8 to 4.0 C
(3.2-7.2 F) by century's end. A final volume, due to be released
in early May, will discuss how warming can be mitigated.


Besides the impact on human society, climate change will also
have far-reaching consequences for the planet's biodiversity, the
Brussels report will say.


It predicts that 20 to 30 percent of species will be threatened
with extinction if temperatures rise 1.5 to 2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5
F), on the lower side of end-of- century forecasts.


If temperatures rise by 4 C (7.2 F), "few ecosystems will be able
to adapt," says the report


Compiled to help governments make policy choices, the report will
probably sharpen debate on a range of global-warming issues.


"The developing countries will certainly point out the huge gap
between regions, and make it known that they need help," said a
Western delegate involved in the drafting.


"This is true even if the IPCC's role is to make a diagnosis, not
to address questions of financing."


Policymakers may also be divided on how much money should go to
adaptation and how much toward mitigation, even if experts have
made it clear that both are essential.

