

A cover-up over the deaths of at least five workers who were
building a subway ahead of the Beijing Olympics has renewed
questions about transparency in China's preparations for the
Games.


State media said Monday that five bodies had been recovered from
the construction site of the new Beijing subway line and that the
body of a sixth worker trapped under tonnes of debris was still
being sought.


The workers were killed following a still unexplained collapse on
Wednesday, the day after Beijing held city-wide celebrations
marking the 500-day countdown to the Olympics.


The workers were building the city's No. 10 subway line, which
will connect to a separate line running directly to the Olympic
Village north of Beijing when it is finished in 2008.


The state-run construction company working on the subway line
waited at least eight hours before notifying authorities of the
accident in an attempt at a cover up, according to Beijing
authorities.


In a circular to other contractors working on the expansion of
Beijing's subway system ahead of the games, Beijing's Municipal
Construction Committee said that the cover-up had angered the
public.


"After the accident the construction company covered it up, which
created an extremely bad social impact," said the circular, seen
on the committee's website.


However, five days after the incident, the Beijing city
government had yet to provide information to the public about how
the collapse had occurred.


The Beijing Olympic organising committee declined to comment on
the tunnel collapse, saying construction of the subway line was
an infrastructure project run by the city government and not
directly related to the Games.


The city government's spokesman's office, contacted by AFP,
declined to answer questions on the collapse or give details
about the cover-up.


The subway project is part of a 40-billion-dollar spending spree
to get Beijing's infrastructure up to speed in time for the
August 2008 Games.


Last year Olympic organisers faced another public relations
battle following the sacking of the Beijing's vice mayor in
charge of overseeing those construction projects, Liu Zhihua, on
charges of corruption.


"We must sound the alarm bells and learn lessons from this,"
Olympic organising committee president Liu Qi, who is also
Beijing's top Communist Party official, said in December about
the sacking.


"We must tighten auditing and monitoring of the preparatory work
of the Olympics to prevent all potential (corruption) problems
and ensure an honest Games."


The tunnel collapse cover-up showed much more needed to be done,
according to Robert Broadfoot, the head of Hong Kong-based
Political and Economic Risk Consultancy, which advises
corporations and institutions on investment in China and other
Asian countries.


"This highlights a huge problem of transparency," Broadfoot said,
referring to the decision-making process in communist China that
remains opaque despite more than two decades of reform and
opening.


"Right since the very beginning, you have had precious little
transparency attached to the Beijing Olympics," he said.


"The cover-up of the tunnel collapse is not a surprise given that
history."


International Olympic Committee (IOC) officials have been full of
praise for the Beijing organising committee's preparations for
staging the 2008 Games, especially for venue construction work.


However, even IOC officials have expressed frustration at times
with lack of transparency.


"At times you wonder if you are talking to the people who can
actually take a decision," one IOC official said during a recent
visit to the Chinese capital.

