

Penpics of the favourites and outsiders at the Masters golf
tournament which begins here Thursday:


FAVOURITES


Tiger Woods (31 - USA) - 13th Masters, winner in 1997, 2001, 2002
and 2005


Ten years after, no one would rule out another Tiger mauling of
the field. He is undisputed world No 1, has won the last two
majors as well as two USPGA Tour events this year already, the
second coming in the WGC event in Miami on March 25, his final
tune-up for Augusta. There has been some talk of a shoulder
injury but Woods looks in pole position to win his 13th major
title. Struggled last year as his thoughts were with his ailing
father.


Phil Mickelson (36 - USA) - 15th Masters, winner in 2004 and 2006


A commanding win last year when he looked set to challenge Woods
at the top of the tree, was followed by his well-chronicled
meltdown on the final hole at the US Open. Mickelson needed time
away from the sport to digest that and his poor showing at the
Ryder Cup, but has a win under his belt this season, and there is
no-one more at home at Augusta where he has finished in the top
three five times in the last six years.


Vijay Singh (44 - Fiji) - 14th Masters, winner in 2000


Has followed a relatively lean 2006 with a tremendous start to
the season and leads the USPGA Tour money list after wins at the
Mercedes Benz Championship and the Arnold Palmer Invitational.
Struggled in his early years at Augusta, but his win in 2000
turned him into one of the acknowledged masters of the course.
Has finished in the top eight in the last five Masters.


DANGERMEN


Henrik Stenson (30 - Sweden) - 2nd Masters, missed cut in 2006


Big wins at the Dubai Desert Classic and the WGC Matchplay have
made him the top-ranking European in the world at sixth and his
tremendous distance off the tee will be a valuable asset over the
lengthened course. Had a miserable time of it last year in his
debut with rounds of 77 and 74, but learns quickly and has the
temperament to win if he can get off to a confidence-boosting
start.


Ernie Els (37 - South Africa) - 14th Masters, runner-up in 2000
and 2004


Has yet to get back to his very best following the knee operation
he underwent in 2005 and has struggled at the last two Masters
following his thrilling battle with Phil Mickelson at Augusta in
2004. But has been threatening to come up with a big tournament
win to follow his two US Opens and one British Open wins and
feels that this could be the one.


Adam Scott (26 - Australia) - 6th Masters, tied for ninth in 2002


Touted since his teenage days as a potential Masters champion,
Scott had a great debut in 2002 when he tied for ninth although
he has failed to shine at Augusta since then. His win in last
year's US PGA Tour Championship hoisted him to third in the world
past such stalwarts as Ernie Els and Vijay Singh. Yet to show
much form this year, but his game should be suited to the course.


DARK-HORSES


Padraig Harrington (35 - Ireland) - 8th Masters, tied for fifth
in 2002


Won the European Tour Order of Merit title late last year and is
at home playing in the United States where he already has two
career wins under his belt. Has yet to really sparkle this year,
having chosen to make a (for him) quiet start to the season. But
has enjoyed success at Augusta in the past and will come into
this year's tournament fresh and fit.


Geoff Ogilvy (29 - Australia) - 2nd Masters, tied for 16th in
2006


Steady progress up the ladder from the Adelaide golfer reaped
dividends last year when he won the US Open at Winged Foot
followed by top 10 finishes at both the British Open and the US
PGA Championship. Made a promising if unspectacular Masters debut
last year when he tied for 16th. Showing good recent form with a
runner-up spot in the WGC Matchplay in February and third place
finish at Miami in March.


Paul Casey (29 - England) - 3rd Masters, tied for sixth in 2004


Like Stenson, enjoyed a breakthrough year in 2006 and has
continued to impress this year with a win in Abu Dhabi and top 10
performances in the last two WGC events in the United States.
Made an impressive debut at Augusta in 2004 when he was two
strokes off the lead going into the final round and finished tied
for sixth.

