

Sanath Jayasuriya may be playing in his last World Cup, but has
proved he still has it in him to demoralise any attack with his
breath-taking strokes.


The 37-year-old Sri Lanka opener was on song in his team's second
Super Eights match against the West Indies here on Sunday,
hammering a 101-ball 115 for his 25th century with four sixes and
10 fours.


The knock revived memories of the 1996 World Cup in the sub-
continent when Jayasuriya redefined batting in the opening overs
with his consistent over-the- top hitting.


He was one of the stars of Sri Lanka's World Cup-winning squad 11
years ago.


The left-hander looked subdued in the beginning against Brian
Lara's side because his team had lost two early wickets and he
didn't get much of the strike in the initial overs.


He made 14 off 33 balls, but his next 27 came in just nine. The
Jayasuriya show had begun as runs came with amazing rapidity from
his bat.


"I want to finish the World Cup on a high note. I haven't planned
beyond this tournament," said the man-of-the-match.


"This is one of the best knocks I've played. It came in the World
Cup and in a crucial game. We lost to South Africa the other day
and we didn't want to lose again. Although I have 25 centuries,
I'll never forget this one.


"Somebody had to take the responsibility in the middle, so I
thought after I had batted for ten overs, that I should take the
responsibility and bat for a longer period," said Jayasuriya.


The longer he batted, the more helpless the West Indies bowlers
and fielders looked. When he was bowled by seamer Daren Powell in
the 39th over, he had already put his team on course for a big
total.


Sri Lanka scored 303-5 before bowling the hosts out for 190 for
their first win in the second round. They now have four points
from three games, thanks to their win over fellow qualifers
Bangladesh in a group match.


It was Jayasuriya who also set up his team's emphatic 198-run
victory over Bangladesh with an explosive 87-ball 109 in Trinidad
last month.


But he admitted it was not easy batting in the initial stages
here.


"It was not an easy wicket early on. The ball was not coming on
to the bat and it was seaming around a little bit. We didn't want
to lose any wickets so I think Mahela did a very good job from
the other end," said Jayasuriya.


He put on 183 for the third wicket with skipper Mahela
Jayawardene, who regained form with a solid 82. Jayasuriya then
returned as a left-arm spinner to test the West Indies, finishing
with three wickets.


Jayasuriya has been in tremendous nick in recent times, having
already made more than 1,000 runs with five centuries last year.
His current form augurs well for Sri Lanka, who now play
Australia, New Zealand, England and Ireland.

