

Insurgents killed six US soldiers in twin bombings over the
weekend, the military said, undermining assessments by visiting
congressmen that the Baghdad security crackdown is making
progress.


Two coordinated roadside bomb attacks in the capital killed six
soldiers overnight Saturday to Sunday, four of them in the second
blast targeting a response team scrambled to the site of the
first deadly explosion.


In Iraq's fiery insurgency, militants often set off bombs within
minutes of each other in a bid to inflict maximum casualties.


Insurgents have frequently used the tactic against the Iraqi
security forces over the past year but such coordinated bombings
against US forces have been less common.


The latest deaths took to 3,250 the US military's losses in Iraq
since the March 2003 invasion, according to an AFP count based on
Pentagon figures.


March was one of the deadliest months for the US military with 87
personnel killed, almost double the Iraqi armed forces' losses of
44.


The six soldiers were killed just hours before four visiting
congressmen hailed progress in the Baghdad security plan --
Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law) launched on February 14.


On Monday, at least seven more civilians and a policeman were
killed in rebel attacks, two of them in the capital on a car
bombing near a south Baghdad court house, security officials
said.


In the northern oil city of Kirkuk, a suicide bomber blew up a
truck near a primary school and police station, killing six
people, including a baby, a doctor said.


Scores of other people were wounded, many of them pupils at the
nearby school, when the explosion ripped through the street in
the north Kirkuk district of Rahimawa, said doctor Abdullah
Mahmud of Kirkuk General Hospital.


US White House hopeful and Republican Senator John McCain boasted
to a group of reporters on Sunday about "encouraging signs" on
the streets of Baghdad where he and three colleagues walked and
shopped.


"After landing at the airport we drove from the airport into
various parts of the city," McCain, a decorated Vietnam war hero,
said.


"We stopped at Bab Sharqi market where we spent well over an hour
shopping and talking with the local people."


McCain said the latest "surge" strategy was making progress in
quelling the bloodshed, citing what he called "reason for
cautious, very cautious optimism".


Fellow Republican Senator Lindsey Graham boasted further of his
shopping expedition in the long notorious Baghdad neighbourhood.


"I bought five rugs for five bucks. People were engaging and just
a few weeks ago, hundreds of people, dozens of people were killed
in this same place," said Graham.


On a trip clearly directed at American voters, the congressmen
were adamant about the positives of the crackdown and lashed out
at Democrats for trying to force a US withdrawal and the media
for negative reporting.


"The American people are not getting the full picture of what's
happening here," McCain charged. They're not getting the full
picture of the drop in murders."


US military officials maintain that execution-style murders have
dropped significantly in Baghdad since the crackdown began but
that the high-profile car bombs remain a headache.


But before the Congressmen's declarations, an Iraqi security
official highlighted the brutal reality in the country.


Citing government figures he told AFP that the monthly death toll
of Iraqis rose 15 percent in March, the first full month in which
the Baghdad security plan has been operational.


At least 2,078 Iraqi civilians, policemen and soldiers died
nationwide last month, 272 more than in February.


Detailed statistics collected by the defence, interior and health
ministries show an average of three more people killed each day
last month -- 67 compared with 64 in February.


At least 1,869 Iraqi bystanders died in March compared with 1,646
the previous month, far more than the losses of the Iraqi and US
security forces combined.


In March, 165 Iraqi policemen were killed as against 131 the
previous month, while 44 Iraqi soldiers died compared with 29 in
February.

