

Rising wages and a shortage of skilled workers threaten to blunt
the competitive edge of India's flagship 48-billion-dollar
information technology industry, experts said.


Rivals such as China and the Philippines are set to challenge
India's dominance, which is also being eroded by IT employees
jumping jobs for higher pay, a rising rupee and deficient
infrastructure such as telecom connectivity, roads and ports.


"These are issues the industry has to deal with in a globalised
world," Kaushal Sampat, chief operating officer of the Indian
unit of Dun and Bradstreet, said.


"You can't look just at the positives, thump your chest and say
you are the champion."


"For every positive, there's a negative," Sampat, 36, said in an
interview in Bangalore, India's Silicon Valley.


Dun and Bradstreet, the New York-listed provider of information
on companies worldwide, released at the weekend its first report
on India's information technology industry, which has risen in
the past decade on the coattails of software firms such as
Infosys Technologies, Wipro, Tata Consultancy and Satyam.


The appreciation of the rupee, which rose last week to an 11
-year-high against the dollar, employee turnover rates as high as
25 percent and a shortage of skilled workers estimated at half a
million by 2009 as wages rise 15 percent a year are the key
risks, said the report.


"Limitations in domestic infrastructure and competition from
other global players offering manpower at low cost like China,
Philippines and Vietnam can (also) have a negative impact on the
performance of IT companies," it added.


These factors are countering positives such as worldwide growth
in IT spending, which is forecast to rise at 7.0 percent annually
to 2010 to exceed two trillion dollars, and the opening of new
markets in Europe.


V.K. Magapu, chief executive of L and T Infotech, an arm of
Indian engineering firm Larsen and Toubro, said half-a-million
people were employed by IT companies when the industry's annual
turnover was 14 billion dollars, less than a third of the current
level.


IT firms will need an additional 1.6 million software programmers
and other engineers to raise combined revenue to 72 billion
dollars in the next five years, Magapu said at the launch late
Friday of the Dun and Bradstreet report.


"The resource crunch will be truly felt when one large IT
multinational comes to India and says I want to hire 20,000
people in the next six months," he said.


India's IT talent pool and wage costs that at one point were a
fifth of those in the US and Europe have attracted global
companies.


IBM has announced it will invest six billion dollars in India in
the next three years, Intel wants to spend more than one billion
dollars, Cisco 1.1 billion dollars and Microsoft 1.7 billion
dollars.


Typically, 50 percent of the spending by IT companies, including
those in software and related services, business outsourcing and
computer hardware, is on wages.


In the 1990s, Infosys, Wipro and other Indian IT companies
leveraged on their then low labour costs and plentiful supply of
skilled workers to win business from overseas customers who
contribute more than three-quarters of the industry's total
revenue.


But now with a shortage of such graduates, the country needs to
make a more difficult transition of training arts and commerce
graduates in technology skills, said Magapu.


In the US, an unsuccessful aspirant for an engineering course may
opt to become a plumber whereas in India, he or she would opt to
graduate in another subject, the executive said.


"Our graduates are not incapable of programming (software),"
Magapu added. "But you can't convert a plumber into a
programmer."

