

West Indies skipper Brian Lara has said he remains optimistic of
making it to the World Cup semi-finals despite his team's third
successive defeat in the Super Eights.


The hosts have just two points from four games following their
crushing 113-run defeat against Sri Lanka here on Sunday. They
had already lost to defending champions Australia and New Zealand
in their first two matches.


Their two points came after their win over fellow-qualifiers
Ireland in a group match. They will now take on England, South
Africa and Bangladesh in their remaining three matches.


"We've a lot of time to regroup and make sure we win the
remaining matches. Let's hope it's not too late. Let's make sure
we have a chance. We have got to stay upbeat as we are
representing the Caribbean," said Lara.


The West Indies play South Africa in Greneda on April 10,
followed by matches in Barbados against Bangladesh (April 19) and
England (April 21).


"I am an optimist. We'll be hoping that some teams beat others,
but it still boils down to us beating South Africa, Bangladesh
and England to give us a glimmer of hope and that is the job we
have to do."


The West Indies were let down by their batting as they could
manage just 190 chasing a stiff 304-run target, with only
Guyanese pair of Shivnarine Chanderpaul (76) and Ramesh Sarwan
(44) offering resistance.


"There is a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel and we
have got to go for that and be strong," said the West Indies
captain.


"I know everyone is disappointed in the dressing-room at the
moment and everyone is disappointed in the Caribbean."


Lara said he hoped the senior players would deliver in the
remaining matches to sustain the team's hopes.


"I think the senior guys are understandably disappointed," he
said.


"They understand the situation and we are in a crisis situation
now. The guys know we have to dig ourseleves out of that hole and
move on."


Lara conceded his team were outplayed by Sri Lanka, saying left-
handed opener Sanath Jayasuriya played a big role with his
century.


"They were brilliant and outclassed us. They ticked all the boxes
right. They have still got Australia and other teams to play and
we now need to focus on ourselves," he said.


"Sanath was exceptional. It was 50-2 and we were trying to put
pressure on them, but he built the innings and set the tone.
Credit must be given to him."


Jayasuriya cracked a 101-ball 115 for his 25th century with the
help of four sixes and 10 fours to help his team post a
challenging total.


The West Indies faltered in reply as they lost three wickets for
42 runs, including that of Lara.


"We found ourselves in trouble, losing three early wickets before
the innings reached any stage," he said.


"It is very disappointing, but there is still a slight equation
to allow us to get there (semi-finals) but it would depend a lot
on other teams."

