

Brazilian domestic airlines claiming losses of 48.5 million
dollars in a six- month tussle with air traffic controllers
sought compensation Sunday from the government.


On the weekend, airports struggled to get passengers back in the
air after a strike by air traffic controllers who demanded
systemic fixes since Brazil's worst air traffic disaster six
months ago, killing 154 persons.


The president of Brazil's airline industry Snea said losses
topped 48.5 million dollars.


"Government inertia in this episode was beyond the pale," Jose
Marcio Monsao said, according to the newspaper Folha de Sao
Paulo.


An hours-long air traffic controllers' strike, which ended late
Friday, grounded 80 percent of air passenger traffic.


Monsao said he had met with the head of the civil aviation
agency, Milton Zuanazzi, to discuss possible compensation.


The airlines seek compensation for the hours of overtime paid to
ground and air crews, overnight airplane storage fees, fuel and
food and lodging for the affected passengers.


Infraero, the state airport authority, said Saturday that of the
704 scheduled flights between midnight Friday and 10:30 am
Saturday, 91 flights had been canceled and 148 were delayed more
than one hour.


The conflict reached a boiling point Friday when the controllers
walked off the job, forcing Infraero to cancel all takeoffs
across the country of 190 million.


The strike effectively closed down 49 of the country's 67
airports, according to Infraero.


Under the deal ending the strike, the government will suspend
planned transfers of workers from the airport of Brasilia, the
capital, to other parts of the country, will raise salaries and
will start talks on "demilitarizing" the industry.


The military controls Brazil's airspace, and most air traffic
controllers technically work for it.


Brazil's air transport crisis began six months ago, as
controllers worked to rule over demands for additional
controllers and for the entire flight management system to be
upgraded.


Airlines long have sought compensation for losses that by
November were estimated at 19 million dollars.


On September 29, a GOL Boeing 737 and a private jet collided,
sending the jetliner to the ground and killing all 154 people
aboard in the country's worst air disaster.


Friday's strike took place while Brazilian President Luiz Inacio
Lula da Silva, himself a former labor leader, was visiting the
United States for talks Saturday with President George W. Bush.


But according to a television report, Lula called top defense and
airline industry officials and urged them to step back from a
confrontation with the strikers.

