

Indonesia's transport minister denied Monday that the pilots of a
Garuda Indonesia jet had argued about its speed moments before it
crash-landed last month, killing 21 people.


"That is a lie, that is not true," Hatta Rajasa said of the claim
that the Boeing 737 jet's cockpit voice recorder showed that the
pilot and co-pilot, who both survived, had argued about the
plane's speed before the crash.


The head of Indonesia's transport safety committee, Tatang
Kurniadi, told Australian television that the recorder revealed
the dispute ahead of the March 7 tragedy in Yogyakarta, on
Indonesia's main island of Java.


But Rajasa told the cabinet that he had met the committee Monday
for an update on the crash probe and it had rejected the reports.


"They told me that the reports saying that there was an argument
between the pilot and co-pilot, that was recorded by the black
box, were not true," the transport minister said.


Kurniadi reportedly said he thought the recording showed the co-
pilot wanted the captain to abort the ill-fated descent.


Survivors said the plane was travelling at a "crazy" speed before
it landed hard, slid off the end of the runway and caught fire.
Five Australians were among the 21 people killed on board.


The pilots, who were suspended after the crash, reportedly blamed
a strong gust of wind.


Rajasa called for patience rather than speculation, saying the
committee would complete its analysis of the black box recorder
soon.


The Garuda crash was the second airliner disaster in Indonesia
this year. An Adam Air plane plunged into the sea off the island
of Sulawesi on New Year's Day in the earlier tragedy, killing all
102 on board.


The government is trying to improve Indonesia's transport safety
record following a string of deadly plane and ferry disasters.


It has devised a new assessment system in which no domestic
airline scores highly for safety, while others face closure
unless they improve.


Experts blame the recent death toll, which runs into the
hundreds, on lax standards, old planes and ships, and
insufficient investment despite booming passenger numbers.

