

Tehran has broadcast new television footage of detained British
naval personnel as high emotions threatened to derail diplomatic
efforts to secure the release of the 15 sailors and marines.


Top officials continued to trade barbs and Iranian students
staged a rock- and firecracker-throwing demonstration at the
British embassy in Tehran, while Iran's foreign ministry urged
the US president to steer clear of the matter.


Britain and Iran said they were engaged in direct talks but
Tehran has so far refused to bow to pressure to free the 15.


Britain insists they were on a routine anti-smuggling patrol in
Iraqi waters under a UN mandate, but the Islamic republic says
they were captured because they strayed into its territorial
waters.


Images broadcast on Iranian state television's Arabic language
channel late Sunday showed two of the naval personnel separately,
each standing in front of an Iranian chart of the northern Gulf
waters where they were seized on March 23.


One of them said he could understand why Iran was "angry" about
"our intrusion into your waters," while the other pointed to a
place on the map where they were "apparently" taken captive while
"inside Iranian territorial waters."


The captives said they were being well-treated but Britain was
quick to condemn the new pictures as "unacceptable," a foreign
ministry spokeswoman said.


US President George W. Bush, who has backed Britain in its
attempts to free the naval personnel, has called the sailors and
marines "hostages" and urged their release, words which drew a
harsh retort from Iran on Sunday.


"It is better for the US president to refrain from making ill-
considered, non- technical and irrational comments," state
television quoted foreign ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali
Hosseini as saying.


Washington has rejected any suggestion that the 15 could be
swapped for five Iranian officials held without charge since
January by US forces in Iraq.


The United States' ties with Tehran have been severed for decades
following the 1980 hostage crisis.


An Iranian military chief on Sunday accused US warplanes of
violating Iranian airspace in the southwestern oil province of
Khuzestan, charges that were denied by the US military.


Speaking in Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
dismissed suggestions that a US plan to strike Iran, Syria and
Lebanon was being coordinated with Washington's key ally in the
Middle East, Israel.


"Declarations that there is an American plan to strike Iran that
is being coordinated with Israel which would at the same time
attack Syria and Lebanon is not familiar to me, and is a baseless
rumour," Olmert said.


Meanwhile, the foreign ministers of Britain and Iran confirmed
that they were engaged in direct talks over the detentions.


Britain's Defence Secretary Des Browne told BBC television that
Britain was doing everything it could to resolve the matter by
diplomatic means as soon as possible.


"We are in direct bilateral communication with the Iranians and
they know that not only are we in a very clear position but that
we have the support of almost all of the international
community," he said.


Iran confirmed the direct talks, saying contacts had never been
cut.


"They were never cut and so there was no need to restart them,"
an Iranian official told AFP.


Earlier in the day, firecrackers exploded inside the British
embassy compound in Tehran which was heavily guarded by anti-riot
police and scaffolding to keep the protesters, members of the
hardline Basij volunteer militia, at bay.


The students chanted "Death to Britain" and "Death to America"
and called for the 15 sailors and marines to be punished. Police
dispersed the crowd after two hours.


The current European Union president, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, visiting Israel on Sunday, said Britain had Germany's
full backing in the conflict.


"We demand the release of the 15 soldiers and we are standing by
Britain's side," she said.


The US government has also supported diplomatic efforts, with
some observers in the United States saying the affair would only
deepen Iran's international isolation.


But USA Today newspaper wrote in an editorial that a diplomatic
solution was the only option "for the time being."


"Letting diplomats work things out can seem a frustratingly
insufficient response to provocation -- until it works," it said.

