

Tommy Thompson, a former health secretary for President George W.
Bush and ex- Wisconsin governor, on Sunday declared his
presidential candidacy.


Asked whether he was running for president, Thompson, 65, told
ABC News: "That is correct."


Despite having served in Bush's cabinet, the Republican said, "I
would have a completely different Iraq strategy.


"I would demand the (Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki) government
first to vote as to whether or not they want the United States in
the country. Nobody has ever asked that government -- duly
elected -- to vote," he told ABC.


"I believe that they will vote that (we) should stay in there,
and that will give a degree of legitimacy to the United States
for being there," he said.


He said he would heed the result if Iraqis voted the United
States out: "We would get out, absolutely."


The former four-term governor of the Midwestern US state of
Wisconsin would also place elected leaders in charge of Iraq's 18
territories and divide oil revenues among Iraq's contentious
factions.


If he were president now, he said, he would not sign House and
Senate bills which condition Iraq war spending on setting a date
for US troop withdrawal from Iraq. Bush has promised to veto any
measure setting a pullout timetable.


"It really just targets to the enemies that we are not there for
the long haul, we're not there to defend our troops," he said.


As president, the former health and human services secretary said
he could place health care within the reach of many of the 47
million Americans without it -- and still save money.


"The uninsured (person) is going into emergency room care for a
lot of their procedures, and it's the most expensive care," he
said.


Thompson earned a national reputation as the Wisconsin governor
who slashed welfare payments to individuals.


Thompson, a low-key manager, found new urgency in the health post
after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States and the
anthrax-laced letters that surfaced in federal offices and the US
Postal Service shortly afterward.

