

China's once-powerful swimming team came under criticism on
Monday for sinking at the World Championships in Melbourne, with
state media lamenting the nation's worst performance in 15 years.


"China Swimming: SOS," screamed the headline of the Titan Sports
Weekly, while the Beijing Youth Daily said China's hopes for gold
medal glory on home ground at next year's Olympics had taken a
dive.


"One silver and one bronze. This is the Chinese swimming team's
worst performance in 15 years at the world' championships," the
daily said in a commentary.


"Competing countries raised their standard at the world
championships, especially America and Australia, crippling
China's competitiveness. As a result, China's gold medal hopes at
next year's Beijing Olympics look remote."


Coach Zhang Yadong was quoted as accepting the criticism of a
showing that earned China only a second-place finish and a third-
place at the World Championships in Melbourne.


"We performed badly this time," Zhang said.


China's Wu Peng swam a respectable men's 200m butterly to claim a
silver but had the misfortune of sharing the pool with the
seemingly invincible US swimmer Michael Phelps, who shattered the
world record in the race.


China also took a bronze in the women's 4x100m medley relay.


Zhang said the squad was hurt by the loss of Luo Xuejuan, the
reigning women's Olympic 100m breaststroke champion and a top
Chinese hope for the 2008 Games, who retired in January due to
heart problems.


"If she was still around we would have at least one gold medal,"
Titan quoted Zhang as saying.


"She could always aim for a gold medal but the most we can hope
for now is merely to make a semi-final or a final."


China's weak performance in Melbourne fueled speculation that
China was holding back in order to stun the world in Beijing.


Australian coach Ken Wood told the Melbourne Age newspaper at the
start of the worlds that he suspected China was secretly grooming
a group of swimmers that it would unleash next year at the
Olympics.


While in Melbourne, Zhang denied the accusation.


"That's a joke, it's not true, you can't take that seriously.
There is no chance for the Chinese team to hide anyone. That's
impossible," Zhang told The Australian newspaper.

