

The prison governor can barely clothe the inmates and says some
of their crimes hardly warrant a jail sentence.


Kyrgyzstan's dilapidated women's prison exemplifies the problems
of this Central Asian country that is more democratic than its
neighbours but chronically badly governed according to critics.


Conditions are fairly relaxed at this prison near the capital
Bishkek, which houses 450 female inmates and is the country's
sole women's jail.


When not sewing in the workshop or carrying out prison
maintenance, the women sit on benches chatting or wander freely
among the buildings, where clothes hang from the windows, drying
in the sun.


"It would be easier to lock them up in cells.... But they need
constant communication to let their personalities develop so that
when their terms end they're able to live in society," said the
prison's head, Viktor Starosenko.


Security arrangements are hardly severe: the guards are barely
noticeable, just one crumbling watchtower overlooks the jail and
the perimeter wall is barely three metres (10 feet) high.


In one corner a pile of iron bars, large stones and even an axe
lie abandoned, all of them potential weapons.


But despite the relaxed atmosphere, the prisoners are far from
happy.


They are clothed only with the help of non-governmental
organizations and whatever their relatives can provide, usually
not much as they mostly come from poor families, many of them
living far away. Medicines are provided by the Red Cross, a
charity.


The diet is almost exclusively comprised of cabbage soup,
porridge and bread and even that is sometimes inedible.


"The food is bad. Sometimes the bread is mouldy," said Venera,
32, who is serving a seven-year term after she fell on hard times
and got caught up in Central Asia's rampant heroin trade.


"Conditions are very hard.... We sleep in dormitories of 100 or
110 people," she said.


But the biggest question is why these women end up serving long
jail terms.


Starosenko says that many should not be in jail at all, having
committed only minor offenses.


One 20-year-old inmate was first sentenced to three years at the
age of 15 for stealing lollipops. She is now serving a four-year
term for stealing other food from a bazaar, he says.


Another inmate, aged 16, is serving a six-year term for stealing
a mobile phone.


In Starosenko's view, 15-20 percent of the inmates should not be
behind bars.


Jailing people for relatively minor offenses is a waste of
resources this poor mountain republic can scarcely afford, he
says.


But there is no sign of progress in parliament on adopting a
proposed law that would introduce alternative kinds of sentence,
something other ex-Soviet states including Russia have done to
varying degrees.


Nor does the justice ministry have any programme for helping
inmates to integrate with society and keep out of trouble after
their release.


Instead Kyrgyz politics appears paralysed by a political stand-
off between President Kurmanbek Bakiyev and opposition forces,
which this week prompted the prime minister's resignation.


"Parliament must adopt a law on alternative sentences to
imprisonment," said Starosenko. "What's the point of sending
those people to prison?"

