

Bayern Munich are determined to give AC Milan a taste of their
own medicine when the teams meet in the first leg of their
Champions League quarter-final here on Tuesday.


The German giants are still feeling the pain from their defeat to
AC Milan in the first knockout round in last season's
competition.


A 1-1 draw in Munich was followed by a crushing 4-1 victory for
the Italian side as Milan produced an awesome display of
attacking power at the San Siro to win their last 16 clash.


"The thought of that defeat still hurts," said Bayern's 37-year-
old keeper Oliver Kahn who will sit out Tuesday's tie due to a
one-match ban for arguing with a doping official in the previous
round against Real Madrid.


"We really want to make up for it and I feel we have a better
chance this time, especially with the second leg at our place."


Michael Rensing, who has long been touted as the natural
successor to the emblematic Kahn, will deputise for the Bayern
captain against the six-time European champions.


Coincidentally, Rensing's only other previous outing in the
Champions League came in last season's 1-1 draw in Germany.


"I know it ended in a draw, but I have fond memories of that
night," said the 22 -year-old.


European champions on four occasions, Bayern will also be without
midfielder Mark Van Bommel who was given a one-match suspension
for making an obscene gesture to Real Madrid fans in the last 16.


Despite losing two key players, Bayern morale is high after
Saturday's 2-0 win over Bundesliga leaders Schalke 04 which left
them six points off the summit and still in with a chance of
retaining their title.


The club have been galvanized by the return to the bench of
Ottmar Hitzfeld, with whom Bayern won the Champions League in
2001.


Hitzfeld came back as coach in February after Felix Magath was
sacked.


AC Milan's hopes of challenging for the Serie A title this season
have been hampered by an eight-point match-fixing penalty, and
they currently lie way off the pace in the race for the Scudetto.


The best they can hope for in the league is a top-four finish and
a place in next season's Champions League, but their main target
is European domination.


"Our primary target has always been the Champions League," said
AC Milan's 31 -year-old Croatian defender Dario Simic.


"We have been playing well, and we mustn't be overawed by the
occasion.


"The important thing will be to make sure we don't concede at
home and leave ourselves in a good position for the second leg in
Munich."


Bayern have lost their last four meetings with AC Milan at the
San Siro, the stadium where the German side were crowned European
champions six years ago after beating Valencia on penalties.


Bayern have already visited the San Siro this season, beating AC
Milan's fierce rivals Inter Milan 2-0 there in the group stages
back in September, Bayern's first victory in Italy for 18 years.


Bayern will host AC Milan for the second leg on April 11, and the
winner will play either Roma or Manchester United in the semi-
finals.

