

South Korea, sandwiched between low-cost China and hi-tech Japan,
can develop a new model for economic growth following its free
trade pact with the United States agreed Monday, analysts said.


The world's largest and 11th biggest economies will both enjoy a
big boost and their sometimes shaky political alliance will also
be strengthened, they said.


Song Wongun, of the Korea Economic Research Institute, said the
agreement was inevitable and necessary for South Korea's economic
survival.


"South Korea, stuck in between rapidly growing China and already
industrialised Japan, needs a new engine for growth -- like
service industries that can be strengthened by competing with
advanced US peers," Song told AFP.


"South Korea will also be able to enjoy a more favourable trade
status in the United States, the world's biggest market, than
other Asian rivals."


South Korea's economy depends 70 percent on foreign trade but
after several years of modest growth, analysts and industrialists
have been warning it seems to be losing its way and must find a
new course if it is to keep up.


"China is catching up fast. Japan is racing ahead but we are
running in one place," Samsung Group chairman Lee Kun-Hee said
recently.


"We need fresh growth engines to swiftly and effectively cope
with an uncertain business climate," Hyundai Motor chief Chung
Mong-Koo remarked earlier this month.


"Unlimited competition is continuing in the global auto industry.
Japanese firms are stepping up their push to hold us in check
while latecomers in China and other countries are catching up at
a faster pace," he added.


South Korea is expected to grow 4.4 percent this year following
5.0 percent in 2006 -- far below an average growth of nine
percent in the 1990s when it was one of the 'Asian Tigers.'


Trade between South Korea and the United States totalled 74
billion dollars in 2006 and studies show this could rise by about
20 percent if commerce is liberalised.


Song also saw big opportunies for the United States.


The pact can create better opportunities for US farmers and
businesses to expand their Asian presence, he said.


In turn, major US industries such as financial and banking
services, automobiles and pharmaceuticals will have more access
to Asia's third largest economy.


"The US can use South Korea as a bridgehead for continuing to
lead the global economy in Northeast Asia, a huge economic bloc
being shaped by a rapidly growing China," Song said.


The deal will be the biggest for the United States since the
North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and its first with a
major Asian economy.


The Korea Institute for International Economic Policy forecasts
that US exports will increase by 1.7 to 3.0 billion dollars a
year and South Korean exports by 3.5 to 4.6 billion dollars
annually.


Park Hyun-Soo, of the Samsung Economic Research Institute, said
the deal also has non-economic aspects for the two traditional
allies whose partnership dates back to the 1950-1953 Korean War.


"The FTA will strengthen their traditional alliance further,"
Park said.


"Closer economic relations will help build a closer partnership
in the political and diplomatic sectors for the two allies."


A US Congressional Research Service report last year noted that a
trade pact could help reinforce the alliance which has been under
stress due to differences over North Korea's nuclear programme
and the size and role of US troops in South Korea.


It said some supporters believe an FTA would help counter China's
growing economic and political influence in East Asia,
"developments which some believe are hampering US interests."


The deal must be now endorsed by the legislatures of both
countries while Korea's heavily subsidised farmers and other
workers who fear for their jobs strongly oppose it.


The Korea Rural Economic Research Institute prdicts South Korean
farmers will lose 130,000 jobs and as much as two trillion won
(two billion dollars) in sales with the opening of the
agricultural market.


Consumers are expected to benefit, however, from price cuts in a
country with some of the most expensive food prices in Asia.


"Though low-key in arguing over the deal, South Korean consumers
know they will be the biggest beneficiaries of the deal which
allows them cheaper consumer goods," Park said.

