

Top-ranked Tiger Woods will be the center of attention as he
attempts to win his 13th career major and third in a row when the
71st Masters begins here Thursday at Augusta National Golf Club.


But defending champion Phil Mickelson, US PGA Tour money leader
Vijay Singh and a host of other foes will challenge Woods to play
his best from the start.


"You don't want to peak too soon," Woods said. "You want to peak
on Thursday at Augusta."


That is something Woods has yet to achieve despite his collection
of green jackets. Woods has yet to crack 70 in an opening round
at the Masters. But when he leads after 54 holes, he is a perfect
11-for-11 in majors.


"You're not going to hit it perfect every day on every shot.
You've got to figure out somehow to get it around and piece it
together and turn days when you're not feeling well, 73s and 74s,
into 69s and 68s," Woods said.


Perfectionist Woods had been unhappy after his US PGA Tour win
streak was snapped with a World Golf Match-Play loss and a rare
final-round breakdown at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, which
Fiji's Singh won.


But two weeks ago, Woods captured his final Masters tuneup, the
World Golf Championships event at Doral, to join Singh as the
only two-time winners so far this year on the US PGA Tour.


"You can't have any better way, getting a W right before you go,"
Woods said. "I'm very excited about the things that I've been
able to rectify and then obviously applied."


It was only 10 years ago when Woods, playing in his first Masters
as a professional, became the first black major winner and set a
72-hole course record of 18-under par 270 to win by 12 strokes,
also a Masters milestone.


Now Woods is seeking his 13th major title, a fifth Masters
triumph and his third consecutive major crown. A victory would
send him to June's US Open with a chance to own all four Grand
Slam titles at the same time for a second time.


Woods and Mickelson have won five of the past six Masters between
them and there are hopes they could become a modern-day Arnold
Palmer and Jack Nicklaus with Singh taking the Gary Player role
of days gone by.


"Vijay is always in contention. Obviously he has been very
successful," Woods said.


Woods arrived at Augusta last year worrying about his father
Earl, who died of cancer last May. This year, Woods looks forward
to the birth of his first child. Wife Elin is due to give birth
in July.


"Life is totally different," Woods said. "Last year I wasn't
looking forward to when that day comes. This year in July, I'm
looking forward to when that day comes. So it's a total 180
degrees."


Woods missed the cut at last year's US Open but bounced back to
win the British Open and the PGA Championship.


"I had to go through the grieving process like anyone, and I had
never done something like that," Woods said. "Usually people go
to work to get away from something like that. But my dad
introduced me to golf.


"When I came back and started working on my fundamentals, who do
you think I learned them from? I learned them from my dad. Every
time we played, he kept harping, 'Learn something from this
round. It doesn't always have to be golf. It's life experiences
on a smaller scale, a microcosm.'"


Woods could complete a second "Tiger Slam" before he becomes a
father, but he knows the real test will come when he tries to
stay at an elite level after the baby is born.


"That's the challenge. At that point, your priorities do change.
I'm sure I'll change quite a bit," Woods said. "I'm looking
forward to it.


"It'll be interesting to try and figure out my commitments... and
balance that with adding a new family member. I have one
advantage. I don't sleep much.


"Hopefully, when that day comes, I'll be able to perform at a
high level. But also, more importantly, be a great father."


Ticket seekers are already camped along shop-lined Washington
Road, the main highway to Augusta National. Fragrant flowers are
in bloom all around the course and the tall pines of Magnolia
Lane welcome players to the clubhouse.


Storm delays have struck the Masters eight of the past nine years
but hot and dry conditions are expected this week except for
Wednesday's Par-3 Contest, often a spirit dampener since its
winner has never won the same year's Masters.

