

US-based Citigroup and Britain's HSBC were among a group of banks
that incorporated Monday in China to provide retail loans to
locals in a bid to ramp up their presence in the key Asian
market.


They officially began a more extended range of yuan-denominated
services in Shanghai, as part of new regulations that have opened
the Chinese banking market to foreign competition.


Altogether four foreign banks won regulatory approval last week
to incorporate locally in China, allowing them access to China's
two trillion dollars of household savings.


Britain's Standard Chartered and Hong Kong's Bank of East Asia
also initiated local operations Monday.


Beijing agreed to open up the tightly held industry when it
became a World Trade Organization membership in 2001. The
regulations require foreign lenders to set up locally
incorporated banks to handle yuan currency transactions.


"Citi's local incorporation in China is without a doubt one of
the most significant developments in our long history in this
vital market," said Richard Stanley, chairman of Citibank China.


Citibank China, with a registered capital of four billion yuan
(516 million dollars), said it expected to launch yuan services
including deposits, mortgage loans and debit cards to Chinese
residents in the coming weeks.


Meanwhile, HSBC plans to set up 30 new outlets this year and
increase staff by 1,000, with another 1,000 due next year,
Richard Yorke, president and CEO of HSBC Bank China said at a
media conference in Shanghai.


The bank has registered capital of eight billion yuan, which is
sufficient to meet regulations that will allow it to conduct
futures business, Yorke said.


Meanwhile, the Bank of East Asia said it plans to increase
outlets in China to 100 by 2010 from 27 currently, according to
Chan Kay-cheung, vice chairman of the Bank of East Asia China.


Chan said the transfer of existing operations to China will
enable it to serve a growing customer base here more effectively.


It expects net profit in China to contribute 35 percent of the
bank's total by 2010, compared with 15 percent last year.


Katherine Tsang, CEO of Standard Chartered's China operations,
said the lender plans to increase the number of outlets to 40 by
the end of the year from 20.

