

Japan's biggest manufacturers grew less upbeat for the first time
in one year, reflecting fears that slower US economic growth will
hit their exports, a central bank survey showed Monday.


But companies will continue to increase their capital spending at
a faster pace than expected, helping to underpin Japan's economic
recovery after more than a decade in the deflation doldrums.


Confidence among Japan's largest manufacturers dropped to a
reading of 23 in March from a two-year high of 25 in December,
the central bank's quarterly Tankan survey showed, missing market
expectations for a figure of 24.


A positive reading means confident firms outweigh the pessimistic
ones.


Corporate worries about the US economy, financial market
volatility and a stronger yen may hamper the Bank of Japan's goal
of raising its super-low interest rates to a more normal level,
analysts said.


"For the Bank of Japan, there's no smoking gun (on interest
rates) in this Tankan," said Jesper Koll, chief economist for
Merrill Lynch in Tokyo.


"I think it puts the burden on the hawks because the bottleneck
pressures on inflation -- either from the labour market or from
capacity -- are not there," he added.


The central bank doubled its key lending rate to 0.5 percent in
February, but Morgan Stanley's chief economist for Japan, Robert
Feldman, said the market appeared mistaken in betting on two more
interest rate rises this year.


"The numbers (in the Tankan survey) were a touch disappointing
and I think they bring into question whether the BoJ can remain
on the offensive in putting rates up at a quicker pace," he said.


The big manufacturers' index is still well up from a low of minus
38 seen just five years ago as the economy recovers from its long
slump, even if it is now further below a 13-year high of 26
reached in September 2004.


The survey also showed that major companies plan to continue
ramping up spending on new plant and equipment, which has been
one of the key drivers in Japan's economic recovery.


The Tankan survey of over 10,000 firms showed that large
companies in all industries plan to raise capital spending by a
better than expected 2.9 percent in the current fiscal year to
March 2008, after an 11.9 percent rise last year.


Analysts noted that Japanese firms tend to be cautious on
spending at the start of the fiscal year and gradually upgrade
their plans. At the start of the last fiscal year, large
companies had forecast a 2.7 percent gain.


"In order to stabilise capital investment, we believe the BoJ
will continue to judge that interest rate normalisation must
continue," argued Barclays Capital economist Takuji Aida.


Sentiment among major non-manufacturers held steady at 22 in
December, defying market expectations of a decline to 20, while
small- and medium-sized companies became less upbeat about
business conditions.


The big manufacturers forecast a further drop in confidence to 20
by June while the large non-manufacturers expect a pick-up to 23.


Large manufacturers expect net profits to rise 2.6 percent in the
current fiscal year while big non-manufacturers see an increase
of 3.8 percent.


The Tokyo stock market took the report in its stride, with the
Nikkei-225 index up 89.52 points or 0.52 percent at 17,377.17 by
the lunch break.


The dollar rose to 117.96 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 117.81
in New York late Friday as some market participants used the
weaker-than-expected headline Tankan number as an excuse to sell
the Japanese currency, dealers said.

