

Thousands of Zimbabwean workers are expected to down tools this
week as pressure mounts on President Robert Mugabe's regime  over
its violent opposition crackdown and the country's economic
meltdown.


As a lawyer claimed Sunday that nine opposition activists beaten
in police custody had been abducted from hospital by state
agents, the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions urged workers to
stay at home on Tuesday and Wednesday.


"We expect everyone to take part," ZCTU spokeswoman Kumbulani
Ndlovu told AFP. The call extended to everyone from public
servants to shopowners and bank staff.


Mugabe is widely blamed for the violence and economic crisis
gripping the country, which has the world's highest inflation
rate at 1,730 percent and four out of five people unemployed.


Workers want their minimum wage to be raised to one million
Zimbabwean dollars, currently worth around 4,000 US dollars at
the fast-changing exchange rate, from the current 90,000
Zimbabwean dollars.


The ZCTU said it called the general labour shutdown over
authorities' failure to respond to the worsening economic crisis.


But the government urged workers to ignore the strike call,
saying it was politically motivated.


"Government has learned that it is the individuals in the ZCTU
who are aligned to the oppositional politics of the Movement for
Democratic Change  ... who want to be seen participating in the
current Western-backed violence aimed at regime change in
Zimbabwe," Labour Minister Nicholas Goche said in a statement.


In September, labour unions were forced to abandon plans for mass
anti- government protests after organisers were rounded up in a
police crackdown.


Last month, several MDC officials including MDC leader Morgan
Tsvangirai were arrested and assaulted at an anti-government
rally -- a beating Mugabe said his arch rival had "asked for."


Several trade unions in Europe and Africa have thrown their
weight behind the planned ZCTU strike.


"The government of Zimbabwe should take steps to address the
economic meltdown," said national umbrella unions of Nigeria,
Ghana, Zambia, Malawi, the Netherlands, Finland and Denmark in a
statement published in Zimbabwe's The Standard independent
weekly.


The Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) said it would
hold demonstrations Tuesday in a show of solidarity with
Zimbabwean workers "as they struggle against an economic
catastrophe and more and more vicious attacks on their members
and leaders".


South Africa's Sunday Times newspaper, meanwhile, reported that
at least 49,000 Zimbabweans were illegally crossing into South
Africa every month.


Mugabe, Zimbabwe's leader since independence from Britain in
1980, was chosen Friday to stand again as the ruling Zanu-PF
party candidate for presidential elections next year.


British Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett meanwhile said Sunday
she held Mugabe "responsible" for the assault of the nine
opposition members, saying it showed the steps he would take to
"cling on to power".


"I utterly condemn the beatings by the Zimbabwe police of those
who have been arrested on charges of treason. I hold Mugabe
responsible for their injuries," she said in a statement.


"This is further evidence of how low Mugabe will go in order to
cling on to power."


A lawyer for the main opposition MDC said the group was abducted
from hospital around 2300 GMT on Saturday by state security
agents.


They had been hospitalised Saturday for injuries suffered after a
police crackdown in the capital Harare last week.


"They were taken from the wards without any hospital discharge
cards or anything to say they have been released," said Alec
Muchadehama. Some were on drips when they were taken away.


Muchadehama said he found the group late afternoon at the Harare
central prison after having visited several police stations.


He said he hoped to go to court on Monday to ask for an order
that the nine be returned to hospital without further police
interference.

