

US President George W. Bush took a fresh blow Sunday as a former
top aide who helped him get elected publicly criticized his
leadership amid mounting political rows and sagging poll ratings.


Matthew Dowd, a key advisor to Bush in two election victories,
became the first member of the president's inner circle to
publicly break ranks, voicing disappointment over his strategy in
Iraq in a New York Times interview.


His comments came as Democrats pressed efforts to withdraw US
forces from Iraq, and amid accusations of wrongdoing by Bush's
top justice official, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, in the
firing of federal prosecutors.


Dowd accused Bush of ignoring the will of the American people on
Iraq, the newspaper reported. He said Bush's Democratic rival for
the presidency in 2004, John Kerry, was right to call for US
withdrawal from the country.


"I really like him (Bush), which is probably why I'm so
disappointed in things," Dowd told the newspaper.


Bush's camp reiterated his refusal to bow to the Democrats' bid
to pull out the troops. One of his senior advisers, Dan Bartlett,
branded it a political maneuver that would leave Americans open
to attack.


"A precipitous withdrawal, if we were to step back now ... would
weaken the United States' interests in the region and in the
world. It would make us more vulnerable to attack," Bartlett said
Sunday on ABC News.


Lawmakers last week passed Democrat-sponsored bills in the House
of Representatives and the Senate that would tie the withdrawal
of troops in 2008 to a major war funding package. Bush has vowed
to veto any bill that sets a timetable for a pullout.


Bartlett told the CBS television network that the party
"respectfully" disagreed with the comments of Dowd, who has a son
about to be deployed for service in Iraq.


Dowd defected from the Democrats to join the Bush camp and became
chief strategist in the president's 2004 re-election campaign. In
the interview, however, he accused Bush of failing to gain a
political consensus on the war.


"If the American public says they're done with something, our
leaders have to understand what they want," the newspaper quoted
Dowd as saying. "They're saying, 'Get out of Iraq.'"


"I think he's become more ... secluded and bubbled-in," he said
of Bush.


Dowd "began to rethink his approach to elections" while working
on the reelection campaign of California governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger in 2006, the report said.


A poll published this weekend by Newsweek magazine put Bush's
approval rating at just 33 percent, with 57 percent of Americans
supporting a phased pullout of US troops from Iraq.


Democrats stuck by the withdrawal bill despite Bush's vow to
throw it out. "If he's going to veto, he's going to veto a
position that the vast majority of the American people hold,"
Democratic Senator Joseph Biden told Fox television network.


"Ultimately, politically, we have to give him money" for Iraq,
Democratic Senator Charles Rangel told NBC. "But we will
constantly remind him that no president in these great United
States can continue a war that the people do not support."


On another front, Republicans showed no signs of budging on the
White House's refusal to have its top officials testify under
oath over the sacked prosecutors.


Critics have said the dismissals were politically motivated and
some have called for Gonzales to resign, claiming he made
misleading statements over his role in the affair.


Bartlett reiterated Bush's proposal to have Gonzales testify to
Congress over the matter, but not let White House aides give
recorded testimony under oath.


Gonzales is to be questioned by the Senate Judiciary Committee on
the matter on April 17.


"Bush is alone," wrote the veteran conservative columnist Robert
Novak in the Chicago Sun Times. He cited unnamed Republicans in
Congress accusing the administration of "incompetence,"
particularly over the Gonzales affair.


"In half a century, I have not seen a president so isolated from
his own party in Congress," Novak wrote.

