

The dollar gained ground against the yen Monday as the Japanese
currency came under moderate selling pressure after a key
business confidence survey showed the first decline in a year,
dealers said.


They said market participants were also watching growing tensions
between Iran and Britain as well as economic indicators to be
released this week amid uncertainty about the prospects for the
US economy.


The dollar rose to 117.96 yen in Tokyo morning trade from 117.81
in New York late Friday.


The euro was at 1.3342 dollars, down from 1.3356 dollars and at
157.39 yen after 157.35.


The Japanese unit dipped after the Bank of Japan, in its closely
watched Tankan survey, said business confidence fell back from a
two-year high in the three months to March, marking the first
decline for a year.


"Although the Tankan result was within expectations, for those
who had bet on a brighter tone it was still a selling factor,"
Hironobu Hagi, deputy general manger at Shinsei Bank's capital
markets division.


"While there will be daily fluctuations, market consensus appears
to be for a stronger dollar against the yen for the time being,"
Hagi said.


Confidence among Japan's big manufacturers dropped to 23 in March
from 25 in December, the Tankan survey showed, slightly below
market expectations for a figure of 24, the central bank said.


"But a one-way rise in the dollar is also unlikely as players are
expected to take a cautious stance this week ahead of US jobless
data" to be released on Friday, Hagi said.


"Also, it will take some time to confirm if the Tankan figure
should be a key element on the Bank of Japan's monetary
decision," he said.


Japan has the lowest interest rates of any major economy,
contributing to the weak yen.


The central bank on March 20 held its key rate steady at 0.5
percent following February's quarter point hike, which was the
first increase since last July when Japan ended an unorthodox
five-year policy of virtually free credit designed to stimulate
the economy.


The market was also looking to the standoff between Britain and
Iran over 15 British sailors and marines seized in the Gulf. The
crisis sent oil prices soaring to a six-month high last week.

