

Despite scoring a brilliant hat-trick against Arsenal on
Saturday, England forward Peter Crouch could find himself back on
the bench in the Champions League quarter-final first leg against
PSV Einhoven on Tuesday.


Scoring a treble against the Gunners at Anfield does not
guarantee anyone a place at the Phillips Stadium in Rafael
Benitez's squad rotation system.


And Crouch, who was playing his first game in 20 days after
undergoing a nose operation, is likely to find out as much when
the team sheet is announced.


Benitez may opt for the pace of Craig Bellamy alongside the
battling qualities of Dutch international forward Dirk Kuyt in
Eindhoven, as he did in Liverpool's last European match, the 1-0
home defeat to Barcelona in the previous round.


The Spanish coach was giving nothing away, though.


"We have a very important Champions League game and I have a good
selection problem after what Peter has done," he said.


However he was adamant that Crouch's match-winning performance
against Arsenal would have little bearing on team selection for
the Dutch champions.


"But the tactics were chosen specifically to play against
Arsenal. They may well be very different in Eindhoven, we will
have to wait and see."


One thing that is certain, though, is that Steven Gerrard will be
lining up in the Netherlands, despite coming off early in the
second half against Arsenal.


"I took off Steven Gerrard because he was tired, nothing more. I
wanted to play him as long as I could, but he needs rest ahead of
the game in Holland," added Benitez.


Gerrard had played a starring role in England's unconvincing 3-0
win in Andorra in midweek and it was his drive and energy that
inspired that victory.


But whoever does turn out on Tuesday, Benitez is confident he has
the squad to cope.


"I rested several players ahead of the Champions League game, and
the lads who came in produced fine displays. That is what you
want from a squad this size."


PSV come into the game in stuttering form domestically. They have
only one win in their last six games in all competitions and just
three league wins in their last nine.


Their once seemingly unassailable lead at the top of the Dutch
league has been cut significantly in recent weeks and they face a
battle with Ajax and AZ Alkmaar - both of which have triumphed at
the Phillips Stadium in the last few weeks - to hold onto their
title.


And on Saturday they needed a Jefferson Farfan goal with 15
minutes left to snatch a 1-1 draw at NAC Breda.


However, they were the underdogs against Arsenal in the previous
round but did just enough to progress, 2-1 on aggregate, and
Liverpool will have to be wary.


Two years ago when Liverpool won the title, PSV reached the semi-
finals and were unlucky in only being beaten on away goals
against losing finalists AC Milan.


They also boast former Liverpool full-back Jan Kromkamp and
former Newcastle striker Patrick Kluivert in their ranks - so
they are familiar with the fast- paced Premiership style.


The two former winners of the competition - Liverpool have been
champions of Europe five times while PSV lifted the crown in 1988
- have already faced each other in the group stages, with the
English side winning 2-0 at Anfield following a 0-0 draw in the
Netherlands.

