

The Solomon Islands, hit by a tsunami early Monday after a
powerful undersea earthquake, is a former British protectorate
that saw some of the bloodiest Pacific fighting of World War II.


Its main island Guadalcanal was a strategic military prize,
notably because of its airstrip, and after months of bitter
combat US and allied troops drove off the Japanese forces.


The Solomons Islands gained independence in 1978. Although
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II remains its head of state the
country is run by a prime minister who is elected by parliament.


Recent years have seen bloody ethnic strife however. Fighting
broke out in 1998 and led to a coup two years later. The unrest
continued despite a peace agreement and has crippled the country
economically.


In mid-2003 Australia led in an armed intervention force that has
restored some stability. It is still involved although Solomons
Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare has been seeking to reduce
Canberra's leading role.


The archipelago comprises six main islands and more than 950
smaller ones, an area of around 27,500 square kilometres (11,600
square miles) of generally rugged mountain terrain but also some
low-lying coral atolls.


Its population of a little over 500,000 is overwhelmingly
Christian and ethnic Melanesian. English is the official
language, but most people speak one of the more than 100 local
dialects.


Most people rely on agriculture, fishing and forestry for their
livelihoods, although there are undeveloped mineral resources
such as lead, zinc, nickel and gold. The major exports are
timber, fish and palm oil.


China is the Solomons' biggest export market while Australia and
Singapore supply much of its imports. In 2005, economic growth
was 4.7 percent and gross domestic product per person was just
600 dollars.


The Solomons' early history indicates hunter-gatherers living on
the large islands as early as 1,000 BC. Some islanders are
descendants of peoples who migrated from Southeast Asia.


The European discoverer of the islands was a Spanish explorer in
the 16th century but Britain gradually asserted control,
declaring a protectorate over the southern Solomons in 1893 and
extending it over the rest by 1900.

