

Australian Adam Scott held off countryman Stuart Appleby to win
the 5.5 million dollar PGA Houston Open by three strokes and
capture his fifth career title on Sunday.


The 26-year-old Scott closed out the victory by nailing a 48-foot
putt on the final hole to post his second consecutive bogey-free
round and finish with a six-under 66.


"I was actually trying to lag it down there," Scott said. "It
went right in the middle in the end. Exciting way to finish, I
guess, but I'm glad it's over."


"It worked out well," Scott said. "My plan was to come here and
feel the juices flowing and they certainly were flowing that last
hole."


He regained the lead with four holes to play and took a one-shot
lead into the final hole.


But Scott hooked his tee shot on 18 into the water opening the
door for defending champ Appleby to possibly force a playoff.


"It was a crazy finish, actually, but I thought I was feeling
pretty good going to the 17th and 18th tee," Scott said. "I kind
of got a gift from Stuart.  I thought a couple pars would do it
for sure, and the last couple holes being pretty tough."


Added Appleby: "We're good friends. All Australians are good
friends. I met Adam when he was a star at 15, 16 and absolutely
world beater. I didn't know who he was until years later. All
Australians are pretty good buddies. We have to travel a long way
to get here."


Appleby's chances disappeared when he landed in the sand off the
18th tee then followed Scott into the water with his second shot.


Tied with Appleby for the lead through 10 holes, Scott took
charge with two birdies on his final eight holes. Appleby bogeyed
three of his final five.


"I left myself too much to do," Appleby said. "I was thinking
par, definitely down the last, thinking Scotty would make a bogey
and do a flip side. Hit it in the drink. He holed a fantastic
putt."


Scott, who has two wins in his last six starts, heads to next
week's Masters in a positive, but far from complacent, frame of
mind.


"You kind of - you can't really assume those kind of things," he
said. "I feel great about my game, but I'm certainly not
predicting a win at Augusta next week, although I'm feeling
better now going into it than I did at the start of the week."


Most of the top players have chosen to practice their way into
form leading up to The Masters.


Tiger Woods, defending Masters champion Phil Mickelson, South
African Ernie Els and three-time Houston Open champion Vijay
Singh of Fiji all are took the week off in preparation for the
first major of the year, which starts Thursday at Augusta
National.


Scott is the seventh Australian to win here, joining Appleby,
Bruce Devlin, Bruce Crampton, David Graham and Robert Allenby.


American Bubba Watson, who began the fourth round with a three-
stroke lead, shot a par 72 and tied Appleby for second.


Tommy Armour shot 66 and finished fourth, four shots back.

