

West Indies captain Brian Lara admitted on Sunday that the
gruelling World Cup schedule had left his team jaded and fighting
for their lives in the tournament.


West Indies slumped to a 113-run defeat to Sri Lanka at
Providence here, their third defeat in three Super Eights matches
to deal a probable fatal blow to their hopes of reaching the
semi-finals.


"It was very tough today," said Lara after his side failed
miserably to chase the target of 304 to win.


"But this was our fourth match in 10 days and you could see that
some of the guys were really flat in the field.


"(Fast bowler) Daren Powell has lost 10kg in the last few days.
It's all very unfortunate but now we have to pick ourselves up
and try and win the next three matches.


"You never know what can happen in this World Cup."


West Indies now have a nine-day interval before they play their
next Super Eights match against South Africa in Grenada before
going on to face Bangladesh and England in Barbados.


Lara insisted his jaded team needs a rest.


"A lot of the guys will take a few days off and we will assess
the situation. We have to be sure we are fresh for the last three
matches."


Sri Lanka are now second in the Super Eights table, two points
behind Australia after a win which was based on a 183-run third
wicket partnership between veteran opener Sanath Jayasuriya (115)
and skipper Mahela Jayawardene (82).


"After the last match (a one-wicket defeat to South Africa) we
wanted to make fewer mistakes especially in the batting," said
Jayawardene.


"We had to make sure that we batted well in the early conditions
because the ball wasn't coming on to the bat. It was a great
performance.


"We also wanted to get our run-rate up and keep wickets in hand."


Sri Lanka were also sharp in the field, none more so than
wicketkeeper Kumara Sangakkara who, standing up to seamer
Chaminda Vaas, stumped Lara for just two.


"We put a lot of emphasis on fielding and the guys were
brilliant. We will try and keep improving as the World Cup goes
on," said Jayawardene.


Jayasuriya, a survivor of Sri Lanka's 1996 World Cup winning
team, was delighted with his 25th one-day century.


"It was crucial that someone today took reponsibility in the
middle and after the first 10 overs, when the ball seamed around
a bit, I decided that it was my job to take the responsibility,"
said Jayasuriya.


But the veteran all-rounder refused to believe that his team was
already on its way to the semi-finals.


"We are not thinking about that. We are just thinking about the
next game against England (in Antigua on Wednesday). We don't
want to think too far ahead, we are just thinking about the
basics."

