

Romanian Prime Minister Calin Tariceanu has announced the sacking
of eight cabinet ministers in a bid to break the political
deadlock caused by his power struggle with the country's
president.


Tariceanu told reporters Sunday that his new government would be
composed of members of the National Liberal Party and the
Democratic Union of Romanian Magyars.


But the ministers from the Democrat Party would be excluded from
the new cabinet in order to end the "permanent disputes that have
undermined the government", he said.


With the cabinet shake-up, political analysts said Tariceanu was
hoping to buy time to strengthen his position in the polls before
European elections in  a few months and a general election next
year.


Those sacked from the government include the justice minister
Monica Macovei and the interior minister Vasile Blaga, who helped
orchestrate the country's successful bid for European Union
membership.


Tariceanu denounced his former political ally President Traian
Basescu as "the man who managed to destroy a solid political
structure" with his criticism of the government and his
insistence on early elections.


Basescu has his own problems. On March 21 a parliamentary
commission criticised him for having violated the constitution by
abandoning his role as a political mediator in favour of a
partisan attitude.


The commission's report said his refusal to approve a minister
proposed by the premier had also been unjustified and that he was
"contributing to creating an atmosphere of political
instability."


The commission lent strength to calls from the opposition to
impeach the president.


Just days earlier Basescu had rejected Tariceanu's recommendation
for the post of foreign minister. Tariceanu took on the post
himself on an interim basis rather than submit another candidate.


The far-right Romania Mare party has already said it will vote
against the new government because of the presence of the party
that represents the country's Hungarian minority.


Tariceanu will need the support of the opposition Social Democrat
Party (PSD) for parliament to approve his new government.


"A decision will be taken Monday but we are leaning towards
support for a limited period, to allow the country to get out of
the current crisis," said PSD spokesman Christian Diaconescu.


Tariceanu faces European elections, which have been put back
until this autumn, and then legislative elections that are due at
the end of 2008.


"But to say that this is going to resolve the crisis is to take
us for wide-eyed innocents," Political analyst Iosif Boda told
AFP.


And relying on PSD support in the short-term may cost Tariceanu
in the long-run, said Alina Mungiu, president of the think-tank
Romanian Academic Society.


"By openly calling on the support of the Social Democrats,
Tariceanu is going to lose his electorate," said Mungiu.


"This reshuffle may allow him to stay in power another year and a
half, but the verdict at the polls will be a crushing reversal
for him," she predicted.


The price for PSD support could be concessions on the
government's planned reform of the justice system.


Since this reform has been called for by the European Commission,
Brussels is not likely to look kindly on any foot dragging in
this area.


Political analyst Adrian Ursu agreed that Tariceanu was to a
certain extent putting his government in the hands of the PSD.


"The Tariceanu government will stay in power as long as the PSD
wants it to," he said.

