

Just how hot are China's stock markets? Ask third-year university
student Jason Zhao, who has five million yuan (650,000 dollars)
of his classmates' money under management.


Zhao, a 22-year-old computer science major at Shanghai's elite
Fudan University, has been investing on behalf of his peers for
over a year, riding the boom in equities that has propelled
China's bourses to repeated records.


With share prices up nearly 170 percent since January 2006, what
began as a hobby two years ago has become Zhao's full-time job --
the ensuing pressure provoking insomnia and a steady slide in his
academic performance.


"With so much money invested in the market, it gives me a lot of
pressure," said Zhao, dressed like any average university student
around the globe in a T-shirt and blue jeans.


Zhao's total investment is small compared to professional
brokerages but it is a reflection of the fever that has gripped
China since regulators rammed through reforms two years ago that
revived the moribund markets.


The ensuing boom has prompted almost anyone and everyone in China
with a little extra cash to try their luck.


It is hardly surprising that Zhao's classmates and even some
professors, he said, are clambering for his services -- his stock
picks are up an average of 600 percent from a year ago.


"At first, we were just some friends investing together. We kept
posting our picks of the stocks on the university's Internet
bulletin board and after a while some people saw that our choices
were right, earning higher returns.


"This was how we built up our reputation and people began to
write to us, asking whether we could manage their money for
them."


Zhao claims he has yet to lose any of his clients' money but he
recognised the dangers involved in the current market fever that
has regulators worried.


"The bullish market gives everyone the chance the make money and
gives everyone the impression that they are good investors but in
fact, that is not true at all -- it's an illusion," Zhao
explained, with wisdom beyond his years.


Star investors like Zhao are the tip of the iceberg in the
current obsession with the stockmarket. China's investment halls,
where punters can buy shares and then monitor their progress on
screens, are packed.


At Donghai Securities in Shanghai, people sit from morning to
afternoon discussing the latest hot tip and gossip.


Grandmothers knit, while others eyes keep their eyes glued to
terminals or on the business news channel that doles out a steady
chatter of investment advice.


The line to open accounts is long too, a reflection of what some
analysts estimated were 100,000 new accounts being set up in just
a week recently.


The exuberance has led officials to repeatedly warn that a major
bubble has formed and investors, especially inexperienced retail
punters, stood to lose everything if the markets crash.


Nevertheless prices have marched higher even after investors on
February 27 got a strong taste of how quickly it can all go wrong
when the Shanghai index slumped nearly nine percent in its
steepest one-day fall in 10 years.


Prices have since recovered and and are now back at record highs
as total trade volumes in the nation's exchanges hit 28 billions
dollars Wednesday, making it Asia's busiest bourse on the day.


The ramped-up activity is a far cry from 20 months ago, when
stocks were floundering at eight-year lows, seemingly incapable
of recouping losses provoked by a government programme to convert
state-owned shares into public ones.


Yet the much criticised overhaul eventually triggered the
positive interest that that has led to unprecedented gains, with
liquidity supported by earnings from the country's booming
exports from what is now the world's fourth-largest economy.


Some of China's two trillion dollars in personal savings are also
flooding into equity funds at a record rate, according to a
central bank survey published last Friday in the state-run China
Daily.


The survey found equity-related funds accounted for 16.7 percent
of residents' financial assets in the first quarter of the year.


That figure was up 6.7 percentage points from the previous
quarter and the highest since the central bank began its
quarterly surveys in 2004, the newspaper said.

