

US President George W. Bush, trying to make a crucial legal
deadline, rushed a newly minted free trade agreement with South
Korea to Congress early Monday, arguing the deal would "further
enhance" the bilateral partnership.


The move came in the dead of night, barely an hour after an
announcement in Seoul that US and South Korean negotiators had
reached the deal that is expected to boost trade between the two
countries by billions of dollars.


Still, it is not certain that the administration will be able to
ratify the accord, the largest for the United States since the
North American Free Trade Agreement, by the end of June, when
Bush's so-called fast-track trade promotion authority expires.


The authority allows the president to submit trade agreements to
Congress for a straight up or down vote, thus preventing
lawmakers from introducing piecemeal amendments.


It was granted to Bush in 2001, when the House of Representatives
was controlled by fellow Republicans, by a razor-thin majority.
Now that Democrats control both chambers, its renewal appears
problematic.


In a letter to leaders of the Senate and the House of
Representatives, the president chose to emphasize the benefits of
the deal, arguing that it "will generate export opportunities for
US farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, and service suppliers,
promote economic growth and the creation of better paying jobs in
the United States."


According to a study by the US International Trade Commission, a
free trade deal could increase US shipments to South Korea by 20
billion dollars (15 billion euros).


The president insisted the accord would help American consumers
save money as they buy less expensive South Korean products.


"The agreement will also further enhance the strong United
States-Korea partnership, which has served as a force for
stability and prosperity in Asia," Bush stressed.


The trade deal marks the first time the United States enters into
a free trade arrangement with a major Asian economy.


Commerce between the world's largest and 11th-largest economies
totaled 74 billion dollars in 2006 and studies show this could
rise by about 20 percent with the trade agreement.


South Korea is the 7th largest trading partner for the United
States and the 5th largest market for US agricultural goods,
according to the US Chamber of Commerce.


America is South Korea's second-largest trading partner and
largest source of direct foreign investment.


But despite historically close ties between the two countries,
the battle for congressional approval of the deal is expected to
be difficult.


The South Korean government has always faced bitter opposition to
the US trade talks from rice farmers, trade unionists and
students among others. But in Washington, criticism is also now
mounting.


There is particular anger over trade in cars and trucks, with US
manufacturers such as General Motors and Ford struggling against
Asian competition from the likes of South Korea's Hyundai.


The United States is saddled with an 11-billion-dollar deficit in
auto trade with South Korea, which is accused of shutting out US
vehicles through an array of tariff and other barriers.


Last Wednesday, US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other senior
Democrats sent a letter to Trade Representative Susan Schwab
complaining of "Korea's longstanding iron curtain" excluding US
manufactures.


But in his letter, Bush assured members of Congress that his
administration was looking forward to working with them "in
developing appropriate legislation to approve and implement this
agreement."


To date, the United States has concluded two smaller FTAs in the
region, with Singapore and Australia, while talks with Malaysia
have languished.


The North American Free Trade Agreement took effect on January 1,
1994.

