

Tenth seed Novak Djokovic defeated Guillermo Canas 6-3, 6-2, 6-4
here Sunday in the final of the 6.9 million dollar ATP Miami
Masters Series event.


The 19-year-old Serbian became the youngest Miami winner and the
first teenager to capture the championship since 1990 when Andre
Agassi defeated Stefan Edberg in the final.


It was the first Masters Series and fourth career ATP title for
Djokovic, who also became the first player since Ivan Lendl in
1989 to win a championship here without dropping a set.


"I played unbelievable tennis in Indian Wells and here," Djokovic
said. "The best tennis of my life. I didn't lose a set.


"Every time you win something or you are the youngest player or
you make any record, I mean, it certainly feels great.


"It means that your name is in the history of the sport.


"I hope that this is just the beginning of a long career."


Djokovic clinched the win with a forehand winner on the first
championship point that froze Canas in his tracks.


He hammered six aces, converted four of seven break point
opportunities and had just one double fault in the two hour, 19
minute match.


"When you play final nothing is easy," Djokovic said. "I think he
is great player. I am so proud for my country.


Canas was attempting to become only the second unseeded player to
win this tournament.


The 29-year-old Argentine rocked the tennis world with two wins
in a three-week span over Federer, the world's No. 1 player.


The first came on March 11 and ended the Swiss superstar's
41-match winning streak. Then in the fourth round here on
Tuesday, Canas beat Federer again.


"Today I tried my best it just wasn't enough to beat him," said
Canas, who had five double faults on Sunday.


Canas had no answers for Djokovic, who held every service game
and lost serve just once in 59 games in the tournament.


The slender Serb displayed his power with a blistering serve and
an assortment of drop shots, including one that ended a game that
lasted 20 minutes and featured 22 points in the second set.


"It was probably a turning point," Djokovic said. "You always
have the turning points in every match.


"It just depends how you deal with them. I managed to hold my
serve. I wasn't able to serve 100 percent because the sun was
going straight in my eyes, and I really had difficult times with
this one side and with a little bit of wind.


"But in the end, you know, I managed to be stronger mentally, hit
some good shots and just patient play, just stay into the match."


Canas is 10 years older than Djokovic and has played nine matches
in the last 14 days.


"I'm old.  After nine matches, all my body hurts," Canas said.
"No, really, I have a little bit of pain in my legs. After two or
three days recovery, they're going to be good."


Djokovic had plenty of energy left. After hitting a baseline
winner on match point, Djokovic ran to the net to hug Canas,
climbed into the stands to embrace his parents and then returned
to the court and threw his shirt and racket to the crowd.


On Monday, Djokovic will rise to No. 7 in the world rankings.


"I'm always comparing myself to the best players in the world,
because that's what I want to be one day," Djokovic said.

