

The Asian Development Bank has to radically transform itself if
it wants to remain relevant in a rapidly changing Asia, a major
report on the future role of the ADB said Monday.


The report projects that by 2020, Asia will be dramatically
transformed into a region that has largely conquered extreme
poverty, one of the main reasons for the bank's existence.


It estimates that by 2020 less than 25 million of East Asia's
estimated two billion people will be living on less than a dollar
a day.


At the same time, 90 percent of the region's people will be
living in middle income countries, with its economy accounting
for 45 percent of global output and 35 percent of world trade.


ADB president Haruhiko Kuroda on Monday welcomed the report.


"The report is both thoughtful and thought-provoking, and
provides us with invaluable insights that will help chart the
future course for ADB," he said.


A special pannel of eminent persons headed by Supachai
Panitchpakdi, Secretary General of the UN Conference on Trade and
Development, was set up last year to examine the trends and
challenges facing the region and how these will impact on the
Manila-based bank's future.


"To effectively carry out its role in a rapidly changing Asia,
the ADB must radically change itself and adopt new models of
development banking that allow it to be responsive to the
region's evolving needs between now and 2020," Supachai said in a
statement.


The report said the "New ADB" must be "more focused and driven by
three changed strategic directions -- from fighting extensive
poverty to supporting higher and more inclusive growth; from
economic growth to environmentally sustainable growth; and from a
primarily national focus to a regional and ultimately global
focus."


Ben Diokno, an economist with the University of the Philippines
noted that "the bank's primary role when it was established 40
years ago was lending money to developing Asian economies.


"Today we are looking at a new landscape in Asia and the bank has
to change to keep pace."


He said countries like China "can be seen now as a major
competitor to the ADB as a lender ... I think the idea of
decentralising some of the bank's departments is a good idea as
the bank no longer needs to be centralised at its Manila
headquarters."


The report said the ADB must realign its operations and focus its
work on six core areas -- infrastructure development, financial
sector development, energy and environment issues, regional
integration, technological development and innovation, and
knowledge management.


"Under this new paradigm, the ADB's work would significantly
differ from its main areas of activity in the past," it said.


The report suggests that as the ADB embarks on this transition,
it should continue to focus on poverty alleviation in low-income
and fragile economies, begin to address new challenges in
countries expected to become middle-income, and strengthen its
internal capabilities in its core activity areas.


It envisages a more nimble, flexible and decentralised ADB, with
clusters of technical staff housed in regional hubs in major
Asian business and academic centers, which the report says is an
essential step for attracting world-class talent consistent with
the new agenda.


The bank's 67 governors will discuss the report when they meet in
Kyoto next month for their annual general meeting.

