

A Paris rapper, turned self-made spokesman for the youth of
France's troubled suburbs and fired up against right-wing
presidential frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy, is on a mission to sway
the results of next month's election.


A 30-year-old whose family moved to France from Togo 20 years
ago, Rost is one of a number of French artists who started
campaigning for black and Arab youths from the suburbs to
register to vote in the wake of the 2005 riots.


For a year Rost travelled the country to persuade sceptical young
men and women their vote could be made to count.


His and similar initiatives appear to have borne fruit: the total
number of registered voters has jumped 7.5 percent since the 2002
election, with big rises in flashpoint suburbs such as Seine
Saint Denis north of Paris.


"I tried to explain that once they start to vote, politicians
would have to take notice," said Rost. "Coming from someone like
me, who had the same life as them and travelled all this way just
to talk to them, it made them sit up and listen."


Rost and his eight brothers and sisters grew up in a single room
in Belleville, a poor high-immigration district in northeastern
Paris, before moving out to the northern Paris suburbs.


He says openly that music saved him from a life of petty crime
and violence.


Today he runs an independent rap label and produces his own
records for a niche following, with hard-hitting lyrics on the
problems of France's "blacks and Arabs, dumped in ghettoes" who
are "too dark to be French", and describing the 2005 riots as a
legitimate social revolt.


One track on his latest album, "J'accuse", is a diatribe against
Sarkozy, whose tough line on law and order as interior minister
made him a hate figure for suburb youths. It warns Sarkozy the
suburb vote will "bring him down".


Sarkozy's image in the suburbs has become irreversibly linked to
his use in 2005 of the word "racaille" -- "rabble" -- to describe
criminals from those areas, which stuck in many people's minds as
a racial slur.


Tensions between the authorities and black and Arab youths -- who
complain of heavy-handed policing -- were highlighted again last
week when an attempt to arrest a fare-dodger in a Paris railway
station sparked a full-blown riot.


"When you're a member of government, there are words you should
never use. Even if your comments were taken out of context, you
still need to say you are sorry to the people you offended," Rost
said.


Of the leading candidates, he says the centrist Francois Bayrou
-- third in the polls behind Sarkozy and the Socialist Segolene
Royal -- has the biggest appeal among young voters distrustful of
both left and right.


The rapper has sparked controversy by telling the media he would
back far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen rather than Sarkozy in
the event of a second round run- off between the two -- and
darkly warning of a "revolution" if either candidate is elected.


Patrick Lozes, of the CRAN council of black associations, warns
that Rost's comments reflect a view that is "spreading like
wildfire" among suburban youths -- for whom Sarkozy is perceived
as a more immediate threat than Le Pen.


Rost himself does not have the vote in France -- although he has
a French-born baby son -- and says this makes him even more
determined to get involved.


"It's a way of saying that being French is not just about a piece
of paper, it's about feeling French. My life is here."


From his trips to the suburbs, and via a website,
www.banlieuesactives.com, Rost gathered comments and input from
some 19,000 people.


Whittled down to a 10-point questionnaire and a charter of key
demands, he submitted the results in person to all the main
candidates except Sarkozy, with whom he failed to agree on the
conditions for a meeting.


Their point-by-point replies have been published in a 32-page
guide for first- time voters, along with a charter aimed at
tackling the root causes of the 2005 riots, including
discrimination and a lack of social mobility.


"We want to see the worlds of politics, media and state look like
the French people -- with blacks, Arabs, whites, Chinese. These
bodies have to reflect the French population," Rost said. "Switch
on your TV, and there are no blacks or Arabs in the National
Assembly."


"People from these neighbourhoods don't feel represented at all,
on top of facing all kinds of discrimination. They end up cutting
themselves off because there's no one they can identify with."

