

Yasameen was born with cerebral palsy, but it was watching a car
bomb rip human flesh to shreds that left her crippled and mute.
Today her only hope is an Iraqi charity offering free
wheelchairs.


Looking up at the doctor examining her floppy legs at Baghdad's
Handicapped Care and Humanity Union she looks frightened, slumped
in her navy blue tracksuit as the strange man in a white coat
bends over and asks her name.


"My daughter went into shock when a mortar shell fell over a
church not far from our house. For five years she was in good
health, she was speaking, saying 'Mum, Dad' and other words,"
frets her mother, Umm Yasameen.


The five-year-old shakes her head as Doctor Abbas Mohammed
finishes his tests. "I can't give her medicine she doesn't need.
She needs help to walk," he concludes, before the family are
presented with a shiny new wheelchair.


Wearing a tie under his white doctor's coat and stethoscope
looped round his neck, Mohammed comes from a generation of highly
trained professionals now fleeing Iraq in a massive brain drain
rapidly paralysing state health care.


With the economy in tatters, the health sector a shambles and
insecurity hazardous, aid workers say they are increasingly
trying to fill the vacuum left by a government unable to care for
an ever increasing number in need.


"We are working in cooperation with some non-governmental groups
because the governmental organisations take about six to seven
months to supply a disabled person with a wheelchair, while it
takes us half an hour," says Mohammed.


Around a dozen brand wheelchairs are folded against a wall. Boxes
of drinks, food and sanitary items are stashed on the floor ready
to be stuffed into plastic bags for the handicapped to take home.


The centre's director, Adnan Fadel, says 2,600 disabled Iraqis
are registered at the simple brown stone building, in a street
where the militant stronghold of Dura meets the palm groves of
the countryside.


The NGO first opened a year after the fall of the old regime, in
April 2004, to provide care, wheelchairs and prosthetic limbs and
to run training courses for mentally and physically handicapped
patients and thalassemia sufferers.


"Because of the bad security situation, lack of medical services,
health centres and medicine, we started getting assistance from
some NGOs operating in Iraq to provide some medical needs," he
said, businesslike behind his desk.


"We are independent. We are not affiliated to any interest group
or political party. This is a humanitarian association," he says,
sitting on a faux leather chair with the plastic sheet still on
the back.


As the country descends even further into lethal sectarian
strife, Sunnis and Shiites are increasingly wary of going to the
public authorities, frightened that being put on a list could
make them targets for murder squads.


Outside the curtain-drawn window, patients queue up on chairs
provided for those who can't walk, such as one heavily
handicapped boy in his late teens, splayed in his mother's arms,
head lolling back and mouth open.


So great is the need that Fadel is planning to open further
branches in the countryside and different parts of Iraq.


But the NGO Coordination Committee in Iraq (NCCI) says risks for
the 80 foreign and 200 local NGOs it believes are working in the
country are enormous, particularly as they increasingly fill in
for hamstrung government authorities.


"They cannot ensure their own security. Only in the last four
years, more than 80 aid workers have been killed. That is the
highest in the world in such a short time," said chairman Kasra
Mosarah by telephone from Amman.


In the past four years, the NCCI has tracked a minimum of 24 aid
workers arrested, 86 kidnapped and 245 wounded in the violence
that has threatened to tear Iraq apart since the April 2003 fall
of Saddam Hussein to the Americans.


Yet the need for their presence has never been greater says
Mosarah. Only 30 percent of Iraqis have safe drinking water. Food
is short, there is not enough blood and medicine and shelter is
needed for tens of thousands of displaced.


He agrees that the burden on NGOs has grown increasingly with the
government unable to provide basic services, reconstruction
essentially frozen and the recent brain drain of nurses,
physicians and technicians fleeing the country.


"Needs are increasing. Any aid worker also has to spend a lot of
time to anticipate the problems, to secure the convoys, to secure
themselves and this is very much time consuming," he adds.


Back at the Handicapped Care and Humanity Union, an elderly Abdul
Rahim al- Juburi, wearing a grey tunic and front tooth missing,
tells the doctor he was hurt in his back when a mortar shell fell
near his house three years ago.


"Before the incident I was suffering from a distorted spinal
column but the incident broke and destroyed part of my backbone,"
he tells Mohammed before being handed out one of the shiny new
wheelchairs.


And with that, plonked in a contraption finally giving him
freedom of movement, he heads out into the dusty street, waiting
to hail a cab.

