

South Africa spinner Robin Peterson believes he has a major World
Cup role to play as his side eye a place in the semi-finals.


"Coming to the West Indies I thought the wickets were always
going to be slow and I expect, at some stage, to have a role in
the tournament and I must make sure that I am ready," said
Peterson.


South Africa, who take on surprise qualifiers Ireland in their
second Super Eights match here on Tuesday, had to abandon their
practice on Sunday after more rain left the field at the Bourda
Test ground soaking wet.


Peterson said the hot and humid weather can increase his chances
of featuring as support to the pace attack led by Shaun Pollock
and Makhaya Ntini.


"I think because of the heat the role of a spinner was always
there. You can't bowl seamers all the time and it's also
important to control the over rate, change the pace of the game,
so there's always a role for a spinner," said the slow left-armer
who has 16 wickets from his 34 one-day internationals.


"You look to spinner to slow the run rate, just get the batsmen
thinking of a certain style of bowling and as a spinner you think
all the time and, if you pick up wickets, it's a bonus."


Peterson hit the winning boundary in the tense one-wicket win
against Sri Lanka here last week to give his team two crucial
points, which he felt were vital.


Needing just four runs to win the game with five wickets and
plenty of overs to spare, South Africa were rocked by Sri Lanka
paceman Lasith Malinga who became the first bowler in one-day
cricket history to take four wickets off successive deliveries.


But Peterson, who failed to take a wicket in five overs against
Sri Lanka, played down his great escape act as a batsman.


"I'm not a hero, I was just lucky. Obviously I'm happy that it
was important to win the game and the two points came our way.
The important thing was that we came out on top at the end.


"We were quite happy to get two points and the team is relaxed
and looking forward to the next games. But we are not taking
Ireland lightly because they gave us a scare in the warm-up
match," said the 27-year-old Peterson.


He was referring to the pre-World Cup friendly in Trinidad last
month when the Irish had South Africa reeling at 91-8 before
Graeme Smith's side escaped with their reputation intact.

