

A tsunami swept ashore causing damage to towns and villages in
the Solomon Islands Monday following a powerful earthquake and
there were unconfirmed reports up to nine people were missing,
police said.


The tsunami followed a powerful 7.6 magnitude earthquake in the
western New Georgia Islands region, which had prompted the
Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre to issue a tsunami warning for
countries in the region.


A spokesman for the Solomon Islands Office of Emergency
management said there were unconfirmed reports five people were
missing after two villages were inundated by the tsunami in the
far west of the archipelago.


"We have unconfirmed reports of a tsunami washing parts of the
most western end if the Solomons, where two villages ... near
Bougainville are reported to be completely inundated," the
spokesman told the Australian Broadcasting Commission.


He said there were also unconfirmed reports four people were
missing after a landslide in the wake of the quake.


Solomons police spokesman Mick Spinks said there had been sketchy
reports of damage caused by a tsunami in areas near the quake.


"There have been no reports of casualties yet but you have to
bear in mind the communications with many areas is poor," Spinks
said.


He said the town of Taro had been hit by a large wave and there
had been reports of buildings being damaged. The settlement of
Lofung had also reported being hit by a large wave with residents
evacuating to higher ground, Spinks said.


In Gizo, a town just 45 kilometres (28 miles) from the quake
epicentre, waves had caused damage after sweeping beyond the high
water mark, he said.


The quake struck at 7:40 am local time (2040 GMT Sunday) and was
centred about 350 kilometres (220 miles) west-northwest of the
capital Honiara at a depth of 10 kilometres, the US Geological
Survey and Hong Kong Observatory said.


The USGS also recorded an aftershock measuring 6.7 about eight
minutes after the initial shock.


The Pacific nation, 2,575 kilometres east of Australia, has fewer
than 500,000 people living on dozens of islands.


It is part of the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where continental plates
meet and frequently experiences volcanic and seismic activity.

