

The tsunami that smashed into the western province of the Solomon
Islands early Monday was between three and five metres (10 to
16.5 feet) high and wiped out entire communities, witnesses said.


"Water is coming up and destroyed all the housing along the
coastal areas of Gizo," an unnamed eyewitness told the Australian
Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).


"I think it is more than five metres."


The wall of water, triggered by a 8.0-magnitude earthquake,
swamped the town of Gizo, the capital of the western province
popular with tourists for its pristine beaches and diving, locals
reported.


Robert Iroga, editor of the Solomon Star newspaper, said it was
too early to put a death toll on the disaster but that he had
received reports from locals that bodies were "floating in the
sea" in one area.


He said reports indicated one island close to the provincial
airport had been totally covered by the wave.


"Unconfirmed reports we receive seem to suggest that the island
was entirely washed away and people are floating in the sea.
That's a report I have from people on the ground there."


Iroga, who is based in Honiara, said thousands of people could be
affected by the tsunami.


"It's a time of year when a lot of people are staying in the
villages, the schools are on a break," he told ABC radio.


Kerrie Kennedy, an Australian who lives in the Solomons, said she
had spoken to her husband in Gizo who said the town had been
badly damaged by the tsunami.


"I don't know exactly where it went, but I heard one description
of a 10-foot wave that had gone through," she told Australian
Associated Press.


"There are houses destroyed -- our next door neighbour's house
has been flattened, whereas our house hasn't been.


"I don't think there's anyone who hasn't been affected by it,"
she said.


Kennedy, currently on holiday in Australia, said people were now
afraid to return to their homes because of the persistent
aftershocks with a magnitude of up to 6.7.


"The earthquake hasn't stopped. It's still shaking now," she
said.


"Most people are actually not willing to go into their houses at
the moment, they're sitting outside because they're just waiting
to see what happens."


The Solomons government was Monday attempting to survey the
damage to the remote western province where residents live in
daily fear of tsunamis.


Reports indicate people felt the quake and immediately feared a
giant wave.


"People found out the sea was moving away and the shoreline was
dry, and then people realised there would be a problem. Not long
after that, those waves came back again," chief government
spokesman Alfred Maesulia told CNN.

