

Australia's media industry is set for a flurry of mergers and
takeovers when new ownership laws come into force this week,
ushering in the sector's biggest overhaul in decades, analysts
said.


The government reforms aim to shake up a media scene which has
long been dominated by a handful of print and broadcast moguls
including Rupert Murdoch and the late Kerry Packer.


The laws will allow foreign players to take a greater share of
the market when they come into effect on April 4.


But they also relax restrictions on how many television, radio
and print holdings a company can control in a single city or
region, something analysts said would only make media ownership
more concentrated.


Communications Minister Helen Coonan said the reforms would
encourage greater competition and allow media companies to
achieve economies of scale and scope.


"The new laws create a framework that will deliver greater
consumer choice and a competitive industry in a rapidly growing
digital media age," she said.


Under the new legislation, media proprietors will be able to hold
companies in two of the three major categories -- radio, print
and television -- in the same region or city. Previous rules
limited ownership to one media.


Independent media analyst Peter Cox said the changes would lead
to jockeying among the major players to enlarge their holdings.


"Without a doubt in the world, we have one of the most
concentrated media ownership structures in the world," Cox told
AFP.


"The fact is that media ownership is becoming considerably more
concentrated. That is a reality."


Paul Budde, who heads telecommunications consultancy Paul Budde
Communication, said while the laws would encourage more private
equity groups to invest in Australian media, they would still
serve to entrench the traditional media moguls.


Budde said the government had missed the opportunity to include
new television licences or digital television in its media reform
package, moves which could have expanded the number of players.


"It (the legislation) basically entrenches the old media
companies for another five years," he told AFP.


"So you get the barons together and they all have their knives on
the table and they will sort out how they will divide the cake
between them.


"It's a missed opportunity to open up the market."


The government has denied the laws would concentrate media
ownership.


"We are in a rapidly changing technological environment and it's
not realistic to simply quarantine certain assets under very old
rules," Coonan told ABC radio on Friday.


"I think the removal of some of these restrictions will enable
much more flexibility and ought to allow better investment in new
media and more choice for consumers."


But Budde said his view was supported by the market, with media
stocks jumping significantly on Friday after the government
announced the laws would come into force months earlier than
expected.


Analysts said newspaper group Fairfax Media, which publishes the
175-year-old broadsheet The Sydney Morning Herald, was expected
to be one of the first companies to be affected by the laws.


"We consider Fairfax and (radio network) Austereo Group Limited
to be the two companies most visible to existing domestic media
bidders," Macquarie Equities said in a market note.


"It (the legislation) certainly frees up... people to move on
Fairfax or to move on West Australian newspapers," Cox said.


Analysts said the industry was likely to get an injection of
foreign capital -- either in the form of media companies or
private equity -- following the removal of restrictions.


"Because a new foreign player does not reduce the number of media
in any given market, virtually any media company could be a
target," Macquarie Equities said.

