

Attention global shoppers: Argentina is offering first-class
plastic surgery at up to 75 percent off US and EU prices, a fact
that has booming numbers of tourists shelling out money for a nip
or tuck.


Sure, Argentina has all sorts of charm on which visitors dwell:
its famous tango dancers, shopping, fabled grass-fed beef, and
non-stop nightlife.


But it also has some of the world's most experienced plastic
surgeons, working at what are, globally speaking, deep discounts.


"For my vacation, I wanted to have a good time, and have my
breasts redone, and in Buenos Aires I did both for not a lot of
money," said Adriana, a 28-year-old Italian woman who asked that
her full name not be given.


Since Argentina's 2001 economic meltdown, the exchange rate has
gone from one peso to the US dollar to three pesos to the
greenback. Even as the dollar has weakened against other
currencies, it remains strong against the peso, making both
surgery and travel expenses a steal.


A breast implant procedure costs an average of 2,500 dollars in
Buenos Aires -- when the price for the same procedure can be
triple or more in Los Angeles, Paris or Madrid.


"But the quality is the same!" insists surgeon Guillermo
Blugerman, who leads a team of 20 at the B&S clinic, which
specializes in cosmetic surgery.


"Before the devaluation, we were able to import top-quality
machinery," Blugerman said.


Virginia, a 22-year-old Spaniard, made the trek to Argentina on a
friend's recommendation and said she was motivated by the price
as well as the professionalism of health care staff. Now, she
couldn't be happier with her new curves.


Argentine surgeons say they are actually ahead of European
counterparts on some procedures. Laser liposuction, for example,
was developed in Italy, "but we have improved it to make it one
of our specialties," said Blugerman.


Cosmetic surgery is anything but new in Argentina.


Local women often speak with pride about their procedures, what
they hope to "do," and how to stagger the work.


"Local demand always has been big," says Soraya Abboud, a manager
at Ultrasthetics Argentina. So "our surgeons are among the most
experienced."


Even today 60 percent of all procedures are done on residents of
this developing country of about 36 million people.


"There have been a lot of cases of people who sold their homes to
get surgery," Blugerman adds matter-of-factly.


Argentina is number three in the world in terms of the number of
cosmetic procedures per capita, Blugerman says, trailing South
American neighbor Brazil and the United States.


Some clinics have teamed up with travel agencies.


Since 2003 the Plenitas clinic, for example, has offered patients
side trips to scenic windswept Patagonia in the south, or steamy
Iguazu Falls in the north as a follow-up to taut skin or new
breasts.


The 'surgery-plus-side-trips' tourism is picking up.


"About 40 percent of our foreign patients opt for this kind of
plan," said Martin Diaz, Plenitas' marketing chief.


Tourism professionals meanwhile have tried to get on the surgical
bandwagon. Some like the travel agency Tangol offer clients a
range of activities including a Boca Juniors football match and a
tango course -- and, why not as long as you're here -- some
silicone injections or a facelift.

