

Business and political chiefs from both countries hailed the US-
South Korea free trade agreement reached Monday, which they said
would strength both economic and political links between the
allies.


President George W. Bush notified Congress that he plans to sign
the deal, which he said would bring export opportunities for US
farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and service suppliers.


It would also promote economic growth and better-paid US jobs and
help American consumers save money, he said in a letter to
leaders of the Senate and the House of Representatives.


"The agreement will also further enhance the strong United
States-Korea partnership, which has served as a force for
stability and prosperity in Asia," Bush said.


President Roh Moo-Hyun, who pushed hard for the deal despite
opposition from some political allies, said it would pave the way
for the country to become one of the world's advanced economies.


His Trade Minister Kim Hyun-Chong described the deal as "the most
important event between the two nations since the signing of the
military alliance in 1953."


The US helped defend the South after an invasion from the North
triggered off the 1950-53 Korean War. It has stationed tens of
thousands of troops in the South ever since.


Business groups in Seoul welcomed the last-minute deal.


"We positively welcome the agreement in that it will not only
promote the two countries' economic interests, but also move
bilateral friendly relations a step further," said the Federation
of Korean Industries.


The Korea International Trade Association said exports to the US
are expected to increase sharply "as the deal is likely to boost
South Korean companies' competitive edge in the US market."


The deal could act as a springboard for the country to join the
ranks of advanced economies, it said.


The Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry thought the same.


Many people in both countries disagree. Some Korean economists
and other opponents say the deal would devastate the livelihoods
of local farmers and the poor and worsen the economic divide.


A study by the Korea Rural Economic Research Institute has
predicted that  South Korean farmers will lose some 130,000 jobs
and as much as two trillion won (2 billion dollars) in sales from
the deal.


South Korea has promised to spend 100 million dollars in aid to
farmers and rural areas over the coming decade.


Bush also has political problems. Four senior Democrats last week
had complained last week that the deal so far was "completely
inadequate in the face of Korea's longstanding iron curtain to
American manufactured products."


"We simply cannot allow this one-way street with Korea to stand,"
the letter said.

