

Former Bush cabinet member Tommy Thompson on Sunday joined a
growing field of Republicans and Democrats vying for their
parties' nominations for the November 2008 US presidential
election.


The field is especially crowded because there is no heir apparent
to President George W. Bush, who after a second four-year term
cannot seek re-election.


Often, the US vice president enters the race, but Bush's deputy,
Dick Cheney, 66, has already said he is not interested.


Among Democrats, New York Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has been
the front- runner for months, but polls show she remains a
polarizing figure in US politics. Many Democrats hoping to be the
other-than-Hillary candidate have since come forward.


The candidates will be chosen in Democratic and Republican Party
state primaries and caucus polls beginning in January 2008.


Following is a list of politicians who have officially declared
or are expected to declare their White House bids.


REPUBLICANS


- Tommy Thompson, 65, a former Wisconsin governor and cabinet
secretary through Bush's first term. He would divide Iraq into
three states, share oil revenues among them, and ask Iraq's
government whether to continue the US presence.


- Arizona Senator John McCain, 70, a Vietnam War hero who lost
the 2000 presidential nomination to Bush. He has a reputation for
independence and favors a US troop buildup in Iraq.


- Rudolph Giuliani, 62, a former New York City mayor who enjoys
strong popularity in opinion polls largely for guiding New York's
response to the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.


- Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, 59, credited with
rescuing the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, from
scandal and mismanagement. The Boston businessman is a devout
Mormon, a potential liability for the Republican Party's
evangelical Christian base.


- Kansas Senator Sam Brownback, 50, is a devout Roman Catholic
who enjoys strong support from religious conservatives.


- Duncan Hunter, 58, is a former chairman of the House of
Representatives Armed Services Committee. He has taken a hard
line against illegal immigration.


- Colorado Representative Tom Tancredo, 61, also known for his
tough anti- immigration stance.


- Mike Huckabee, 51, was governor of Arkansas for 10 years until
stepping down in January. He is best known nationally for his
personal quest to lose weight.


Republicans reportedly considering a presidential bid include:


- Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel, 60, a Vietnam War veteran and
harsh critic of the US handling of the war in Iraq.


- Newt Gingrich, 63, a former speaker of the House of
Representatives and a free-market ideologue.


DEMOCRATS


- Hillary Clinton, 59. The New York senator's team includes
experienced advisers and perhaps most importantly her husband,
former president Bill Clinton.


- Barack Obama, 45. The charismatic and telegenic senator from
Illinois is considered the first African-American to have a
serious chance of winning the presidency.


- John Edwards, 53, is a former senator and was John Kerry's vice
presidential running mate in the 2004 election. Edwards is a
trial lawyer who has carefully nurtured support in key primary
states such as Iowa and South Carolina.


- Delaware Senator Joseph Biden, 64, chairman of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. An attorney and law professor, he
was first elected to the Senate in 1972 at the age of 29.


- Connecticut Senator Chris Dodd, 62. A well-connected senior
Democrat, he was elected to the House of Representatives in 1974
and to the Senate in 1980.


- New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson, 59. A former energy
secretary and United Nations ambassador during the Clinton
administration, he would become the first Hispanic US president
if elected.


- Ohio Representative Dennis Kucinich, 60, is a pacifist that
embodies the party's left wing. He was a Democratic contender in
2004.


Democrats reportedly considering a bid include:


- Al Gore, 58, Clinton's vice president. Gore's recent Oscar win
for his global- warming documentary "An Inconvenient Truth" has
many party faithful considering his candidacy. Gore, who has
feebly denied presidential aspirations, narrowly lost the 2000
election to Bush.


- Wesley Clark, 62, a former supreme allied commander of NATO in
Europe, could launch another campaign after his failed attempt in
2004.


INDEPENDENT


- Ralph Nader, 72. The consumer activist and populist ran in 1996
and 2000 for the tiny Green Party, and in 2004 as an independent.
Angry Democrats still blame him for siphoning votes from Gore in
the key state of Florida in the 2000 election, thus throwing the
state -- and the election -- to Bush.

