

Hundreds of Ethiopian troop reinforcements entered Mogadishu
Monday, after four days of heavy fighting sparked by an Ethiopian
offensive against Islamist rebels and clan gunmen.


Residents on the outskirts of Mogadishu said the fresh Ethiopian
deployment entered the capital on the road from Baidoa, where the
interim government is based.


Ethiopian troops and their military hardware remained in
positions in the Ali Kamin neighbourhood, near the main soccer
stadium, where fighting has been fiercest and sporadic gunfire
rang out Monday.


No clear death toll is available from fighting since the
Ethiopian army launched its drive to rid the capital of hostile
militia on Thursday, but the International Committee of the Red
Cross estimates that dozens of civilians have been killed.


The UN refugee agency said Sunday that some 10,000 people had
fled Mogadishu violence over the past three days alone.


A doctor told AFP Monday that Ethiopian troops had raided the
hospital in Ali Kamin, which has also been hit by mortar shells.


"The Ethiopian forces broke into the hospital. They broke the
doors of the offices. They have collected all the medicine and
they also detained one of the doctors," said doctor Muhamud
Hassan, from the Al Hayat hospital.


"We don't know why they are doing this but we are not involved in
the fighting. There are a lot of patients and some have been
wounded by artillery shells that landed in the hospital," Hassan
said.


Elders from the capital's dominant Hawiye clan Sunday called for
an end to the fighting, which international observers say was the
worst in more than 15 years, but Ethiopia did not comment on the
second attempt at a truce in as many weeks.


The elders asked the African Union peacekeeping mission, which
has some 1,500 Ugandan troops in Mogadishu, to monitor the
implementation of a ceasefire.


One Ugandan soldier was killed and five injured over the weekend,
marking the first death among African Union peacekeepers deployed
here.


Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
out the leaders of the Islamist movement from south and central
Somalia three months ago.

