

A tsunami hit towns and villages in the Solomon Islands Monday
following a powerful earthquake with unconfirmed reports up to
nine people were missing, police said.


The tsunami followed a powerful 8.0 magnitude earthquake in the
western New Georgia Islands region, which prompted the Pacific
Tsunami Warning Centre to issue a tsunami warning for countries
in the region.


A spokesman for the Solomon Islands Office of Emergency
management said there were unconfirmed reports five people were
missing after two villages were inundated by the tsunami in the
far west of the archipelago.


"We have unconfirmed reports of a tsunami washing parts of the
most western end if the Solomons, where two villages ... near
Bougainville are reported to be completely inundated," the
spokesman told the Australian Broadcasting Commission.


He said there were also unconfirmed reports four people were
missing after a landslide in the wake of the quake.


Solomons police spokesman Mick Spinks said there had been sketchy
reports of tsunami damage in areas near the quake.


"There have been no reports of casualties yet but you have to
bear in mind the communications with many areas is poor," Spinks
said.


He said the town of Taro had been hit by a large wave and there
were reports of buildings being damaged. The settlement of Lofung
had also reported being hit by a large wave with residents
evacuating to higher ground, Spinks said.


In Gizo, a town just 45 kilometres (28 miles) from the quake
epicentre, waves caused damage after sweeping beyond the high
water mark, he said.


The quake struck at 7:40 am local time (2040 GMT Sunday) and was
centred about 350 kilometres (220 miles) west-northwest of the
capital Honiara at a depth of 10 kilometres, the US Geological
Survey and Hong Kong Observatory said.


The USGS also recorded an aftershock measuring 6.7 about eight
minutes after the initial shock.


The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre issued a tsunami warning after
the quake.


"An earthquake of this size has the potential to generate a
destructive tsunami that can strike coastlines in the region near
the epicentre within minutes to hours," the warning centre said.


The warning covers the Solomons, Australia, Indonesia, Papua New
Guinea, Vanuatu, Nauru, Chuuk, New Caledonia, Pohnpei, Kosrae,
Tuvalu, Kiribati and the Marshall Islands, with countries as far
away as Japan on alert.


The centre warned "authorities should take appropriate action in
response to this possibility" of a tsunami.


Australia issued an alert for residents of its northeast coast
and authorities in New Caledonia, some 1,000 kilometres south of
the Solomons, evacuated people in threatened areas to higher
ground.


Geoscience Australia said the tsunami would be between 10 and 20
centimetres (four to eight inches) in its territory, posing
little threat to residents of Queensland state.


Bureau of Meteorology spokesman Rob Webb said that while the
tsunami sounded small, it had so far only been measured in one
place and still had the potential to cause damage in the Pacific.


"It can act very differently in different locations," he said.
"It's quite a dangerous situation that we are monitoring very
closely -- 8.1 is enough to generate a tsunami across the
Pacific."


The Solomon Islands, 2,575 kilometres east of Australia, has
fewer than 500,000 people living on dozens of islands.


It is part of the Pacific "Ring of Fire" where continental plates
meet and frequently experiences volcanic and seismic activity.

