

Prime Minister Ehud Olmert drew fire from across the Israeli
political spectrum on Monday for calling Arab nations to convene
a summit with the Jewish state to discuss a Saudi-drafted peace
plan.


"I invite all the heads of the Arab states, including of course
the Saudi king whom I consider a very important leader, to hold
talks with us," Olmert told a joint press conference with German
Chancellor Angela Merkel in Jerusalem late Sunday.


"If the Saudi king initiates a meeting of moderate Arab states
and invites me and the head of the Palestinian Authority in order
to present us the Saudi ideas, we will come to hear them and we
will be glad to voice ours," he said.


But the call by the increasingly unpopular premier drew jeers
from both left and right in Israel.


"Mr Olmert is in such a bad state on the domestic political scene
that such an invitation is unlikely to score him many points,"
said a commentator on army radio. "Unfortunately for his
political future, the priorities of (Saudi) King Abdullah are not
the same as his."


The leader of the dovish Meretz party, Yossi Beilin, said:
"Instead of hiding behind hollow words, Olmert needs to grab the
bull by the horns and at least negotiate with our neighbours, but
it's safe to assume that the odds of him doing so are slim to
none."


An MP with the National Religious Party, closely affiliated with
Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank, slammed Olmert's
statements as "delusional."


The anti-settlement watchdog Peace Now called them "cheap
populism," and an Arab Israeli MP branded them "nothing more than
PR."


Palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erekat said he hoped Olmert's
call for talks presaged Israeli acceptance of the Saudi
blueprint.


"We hope Ehud Olmert will accept the Arab initiative" which
"would open new horizons," he told AFP.


Olmert has seen his ratings drop to nearly zero following last
year's inconclusive war against Hezbollah and a string of
corruption scandals, and observers here say he badly needs a
breakthrough in the peace process to secure his political
survival.


At a summit in Riyadh last week, Arab leaders revived a five-
year-old plan that offers Israel normal relations if it withdraws
from all land seized in the 1967 Six Day War, and allows for the
creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Palestinian
refugees.


Israel rejected the plan when it was first adopted in 2002, but
has lately said that it could serve as a basis for talks provided
there were changes on the refugee issue, something Arab heads of
state rejected at the Riyadh summit.


Olmert said that if the Arab nations were to convene a meeting
with the Israelis to discuss the revived peace plan, he did not
"intend do dictate to them what they should say."


"It is not essential that the things they will say and the things
we will say will be identical at this stage, but the actual
holding of such a meeting, where they could present all their
ideas and we could present our ideas is certainly something worth
an effort."


During a visit to the region by US Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice last week, US officials travelling with her confirmed that
efforts were underway to convene a meeting between Israel, pro-
Western Arab states and the key players in the Middle East peace
process.


But one US official said that talk of such an encounter was
"premature" as it was unclear whether Saudi Arabia and fellow US
ally the United Arab Emirates would be willing to abandon their
longstanding public policy of no contacts with the Jewish state.

