

The St. Louis Cardinals raised their first World Series banner in
24 years on Sunday, but the New York Mets dampened the
celebrations with a 6-1 Opening Day victory.


The Mets got six strong innings from Tom Glavine, who notched his
291st career victory and out-dueled Cardinals ace Chris
Carpenter.


Carlos Delgado opened the scoring with a two-run double and Paul
Lo Duca drove in three runs for the Mets, who tied for the most
wins in the majors last season with 97 before falling to St.
Louis in seven games in an exciting National League Championship
Series.


With Mets star righthander Pedro Martinez out until after the
All-Star break with a rotator cuff injury, 40-year-olds Glavine
and Orlando Hernandez will be counted on to lead a rotation that
also includes second-year starter John Maine and unproven hurlers
Oliver Perez and Mike Pelfrey.


Glavine put to rest any concerns about his age finally catching
up to him, yielding a run, six hits and a walk while striking out
two to remain undefeated in his career when having a five-run
lead. He also moved within nine wins of becoming the fifth
lefthander all-time to reach 300 wins.


The game kicked off what promises to be a landmark 2007 baseball
season.


San Francisco's Barry Bonds pursues a bittersweet bid for
baseball history, the controversial San Francisco Giants slugger
needing 22 home runs to break Hank Aaron's hallowed all-time US
mark of 755.


But Bonds' links to the BALCO steroid scandal have made him a
pariah in the eyes of many baseball fans - a dope cheat with a
tainted feat.


For those weary of the Bonds saga, and baseball's apparent
inability to get to grips with doping, Japan's Daisuke Matsuzaka
is a welcome antidote.


The 26-year-old righthander was a high-school legend and a hero
for the Seibu Lions before accepting a six-year contract worth 52
million dollars to join the Boston Red Sox.


"Dice-K" and his awe-inducing "gyroball" join a pitching staff
with Curt Schilling, Josh Beckett and knuckleballer Tim Wakefield
who could give the Sox an edge over the New York Yankees in their
American League East division feud.


Boston launch their season on Monday at Kansas City, with
Schilling on the mound.


The Yankees are also in action on Monday, as are the Detroit
Tigers, the defending American League champions, who return most
of their pennant-winning lineup.


The Giants and Bonds open their season on Tuesday, when they host
the San Diego Padres.

