

Carlos Delfino and Antonio McDyess came off the bench to fire the
Detroit Pistons to a 94-88 victory over the Miami Heat Sunday in
a battle of National Basketball Association Eastern Conference
powers.


Richard Hamilton scored 19 points and Chauncey Billups added 17
for the Pistons, who improved to 47-26 and maintained their hold
on the top spot in the East and beat the Heat for the second time
in three meetings this season.


"We were letting Miami dictate the way the game was played,"
Pistons coach Flip Saunders said. "In the fourth quarter, we were
aggressive, and we came away with a win."


Detroit and defending NBA champions Miami have met in the
conference finals each of the last two years and could be on a
collision course again this year.


In a pair of intense series, the Pistons won in seven games in
2005 and the Heat in six games in 2006.


The Heat have been slowed by injuries all season but have climbed
to the top of the Southeast Division. A win would have sent a
message for the postseason, but Miami twice squandered a double-
digit lead.


"This is just a very - for me, for all of us - just a very
disappointing loss," Heat coach Pat Riley said. "Probably for 38
minutes, we probably outplayed them. (We) just broke down. It was
a lot of things."


"Every time we play this team, especially here in this building,
we know it's going to be a very exciting place to play," Heat
center Shaquille O'Neal said. "We obviously came to play today
but it's a 48-minute game and the last five to six minutes, we
just let it slip away."


A jumper by Udonis Haslem opened a 77-67 advantage with 8:58 to
play before the Heat missed 12 of their next 13 shots. In a
raucous Palace of Auburn Hills, the Pistons stormed back behind
Delfino and McDyess.


Delfino had a pair of buckets before making a steal and dunk that
cut the deficit to 79-78 with 6:53 left. McDyess had a dunk and
bank shot around a jumper by Flip Murray to give Detroit an 83-78
lead with 4:55 to go.


Rasheed Wallace scored 14 points and Delfino and McDyess scored
12 each, helping Detroit's reserves hold a 34-11 scoring edge.

