

Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi Monday vowed to find a
partner for ailing Malaysian carmaker Proton as soon as possible
after the government missed a self-imposed deadline on a
decision.


Abdullah said he will soon meet Proton's chief as officials
finished talks with possible partners, including Germany's
Volkswagen AG and US auto giant General Motors (GM).


"I'm waiting for the Proton chief, he has indicated he wanted to
see me, so I'll be expecting ... him to come any time," Abdullah
told reporters.


"Of course we want to make a decision as soon as possible," he
said, while refusing to set a date.


Proton's chief and managing director is Syed Zainal Abidin Syed
Mohamed Tahir.


The government on Saturday missed its own deadline to announce a
strategic partner for loss-making Proton, a move analysts say is
crucial for the carmaker to reverse sliding sales due to
increasing competition and poor models.


Malaysia has already extended the deadline for a decision once,
after saying last November it aimed to announce a partner by the
end of January.


"At the level of the officials, it's nearing conclusion, they
have to present the full report," Abdullah said, when asked to
confirm if Proton was talking to both Volkswagen and GM.


Abdullah earlier this month said Proton was in talks with
Volkswagen AG and would turn to General Motors if those talks
failed.


A senior official said over the weekend that Abdullah was also
expected to meet top officials from Volkswagen in Malaysia over
Proton's future.


"A high level meeting is expected soon. It is being arranged,"
the official, who is familiar with the on-going talks on a
possible tie-up, told AFP.


Earlier this month, negotiations with French car giant PSA
Peugeot-Citroen collapsed in what has turned into a long running
saga to find a partner for the struggling Malaysian company.


Three Malaysian automotive firms have also expressed interest in
partnering the national carmaker.


Proton posted a third consecutive quarterly loss of 281.45
million ringgit (80.40 million dollars) in the three months to
December compared with a net profit of 86.51 million ringgit a
year earlier.

