

A dispute between Singapore Airlines and its pilots will not
delay the scheduled delivery of Airbus A380 jets in October, the
airline's chairman said Monday.


The carrier and its pilots have "differences" over how much they
should be paid to fly the giant new plane, SIA has said
previously.


SIA and its pilots' union, the Airline Pilots Association of
Singapore (ALPA-S), will bring their dispute to the Industrial
Arbitration Court on April 23, SIA chairman Stephen Lee said.


The court's decision is final and legally binding.


"The 380 delivery is scheduled in October. I don't think this
will delay the operation of the plane," Lee told reporters at the
launch of a "collective partnership" between the airline and its
unions.


SIA is set to be the first carrier to receive the double-decker
A380 in October this year after a series of delays blamed on
wiring problems pushed back delivery from earlier last year.


The airline has committed to buy 19 of the super jumbos.


"Sometimes when the positions are quite far apart and we cannot
bring them closer, mediation or arbitration may not be a bad
thing," Lee told reporters at the launch of a "collective
partnership" between the airline and its unions.


"We are not so worried about going to mediation-arbitration if
that can solve the issue," he said, adding that while the
arbitration is in process, SIA is working with the pilots' union
to form a closer partnership.


"The more important thing is that we must build a relationship
that's strong enough to withstand this sort of issue," he said.


The ALPA-S president, Captain P. James, was present at the
labour-management event but declined to comment.


In March 2005, SIA and the pilots' union signed a three-year
collective agreement to end protracted and sometimes bitter
negotiations over wages and employment terms.


ALPA-S, with about 1,700 members, has long been regarded as the
only workers' group in Singapore willing to stand up to the
government, which has kept a tight rein on industrial action.


Lee said in a speech at the ceremony that the SIA group is
"complex" and known for "its long history of industrial
relations, sometimes infamously".


"If we can turn this culture and industrial relations into one of
union- management partnership and vigorous work culture, we can
enhance SIA's competitive edge," he said.


"There will always be issues," he said. "What is crucial is that
both parties must not let these side issues adversely affect the
main partnership and... forget that the real threat is lurking
outside in the market place."

