

Beaches on Australia's east coast were shut Monday and some ferry
services in Sydney were cancelled after a tsunami sparked by a
powerful earthquake in the Pacific threatened the region.


Australian officials earlier issued a tsunami alert for residents
of northeastern Queensland, but said the wave would measure only
10 to 20 centimeters (four to eight inches) and would pose little
threat.


Authorities in Queensland and New South Wales states took action
amid fears that swells generated by the tsunami that followed an
8.0-magnitude quake in the Solomon Islands could threaten bathers
and ships attempting to dock.


"We just feel it's best to err on the side of caution in this
respect," said Warren Young, chief lifeguard of Gold Coast City
Council in Queensland, adding that no immediate abnormal sea
conditions had been reported.


"We have had a warning and I think it's in the interest of public
safety to at least take care and err on the side of caution," he
said, adding that  beaches would most likely reopen at about
midday (0200 GMT).


New South Wales State Emergency Services (SES) said that while no
destruction could be expected on its coast, swimmers and boaters
should stay out of the sea until further notice.


"It's just a precautionary thing, we are wanting to make sure
there's nobody in the water due to those unusual changes in sea
level and currents," SES spokesman Philip Campbell said.


"We are asking people to stay away from the beach, in particular
not to be in the surf."


The Sydney Ferries company suspended some operations in
Australia's largest city following the tsunami alert, temporarily
replacing the boats with bus services.


"It's primarily due to our concern about being able to dock
ferries safely at wharves, because when there is a change in
swell conditions it can make it (docking) difficult," a Sydney
Ferries spokesman said.


A Geoscience Australia spokeswoman said the tsunami was between
10 and 20 centimeters (four to eight inches) at the single point
it was measured, posing little threat to residents in isolated
areas of Australia.


But as the agency upgraded the quake to 8.1 on the Richter Scale
compared to the US Geological Survey's reading of 8.0, other
officials warned that the tsunami could still wreak damage in
other areas of the Pacific.


Bureau of Meteorology spokesman Rob Webb said that while the
tsunami sounded small, it had so far only been measured in one
place and still had the potential to cause damage in the Pacific.


"It can act very differently in different locations," he said.
"It's quite a dangerous situation that we are monitoring very
closely -- 8.1 is enough to generate a tsunami across the
Pacific."


Queensland officials said coastal residents had been warned to
stay away from low-lying areas and beaches.


"We are taking every possible precaution," said Emergency
Management Queensland spokesman John Hall.


"We are asking people to stay away from beaches and low-lying
areas because these are the most dangerous areas," he said.


A tsunami battered the western edge of the Solomon Islands,
causing damage to towns and villages, officials said.


One local official quote by Japanese public broadcaster NHK said
three people had been killed. Another official told the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation there were unconfirmed
reports of up to nine missing.

