

South African legend Gary Player will equal a record here
Thursday with his 50th Masters start, matching Arnold Palmer's
all-time mark even as one of his own Masters records is
challenged.


The 71-year-old icon won three Masters titles, including the
first by a non-US golfer in 1961 as well as in 1974 and 1978, and
nine major crowns overall, including three British Opens, a US
Open and two PGA Championships.


No one has played more tournament holes at Augusta National Golf
Club than Player, whose 30 cuts made rank behind only six-time
winner Jack Nicklaus. Palmer made the 36-hole cut in only half
his starts.


"If there is a golf course in heaven, I hope it's like Augusta
National. But I'm in no hurry to tee off," Player has fondly said
after past year's trips down Magnolia Lane.


Player made a Masters record 23 consecutive cuts from 1959 to
1982 but that mark could be matched this year by US veteran Fred
Couples, who has not missed a Masters cut since his 1983 debut
although a back injury kept him out in 1994.


Couples, 47, won his only major title at the Masters in 1992 and
played alongside eventual winner Phil Mickelson in last year's
final group before settling for a share of third, his best
Masters finish since second in 1998.


Palmer, who played his final Masters in 2004, said he is not
interested in using his past champion's exemption to make one
more march around Augusta to stay ahead of Player.


"Gary Player is going to do whatever he can to top whatever I've
done. That includes living longer or whatever," Palmer said. "He
is a hard worker. He's a great guy. So whatever he does, I think
it's great."


Player's legacy is as a globetrotting golfer, making him the
standard for a new era of worldwide golfers such as his
compatriot Ernie Els and a host of Australians and Asians whose
best recent example was Greg Norman.


"Gary has made a wide contribution to international golf," Palmer
said. "He is a never-ending guy that travels all the time. I
wouldn't do what he does to tell you the truth. He's probably
going around the world seven times this year.


"And he's flying commercially. I wouldn't do that."


World number one Tiger Woods, a 13-time major champion, could
only marvel at how great Player's legend would be today had the
prime of his career come in a modern era of private airplanes.


"Remarkable. He was the first real global player. He played
everywhere," Woods said. "It's hard to imagine. Ernie does it
now. He has his own (plane). Jack and Arnold, they said flying
privately has prolonged their career.


"Just imagine if Gary would have come along in this day and age,
if he was that successful and flown privately and played all over
the world with the success he's had."


And, Woods notes, that was when he was switching equipment on
every continent to make the marketing riches that are drawfed by
what even one modern deal brings.


"He had different club deals so he played here with one brand, in
Europe with one brand, in South Africa with another, Asia and
Australia with another - pretty good talent, different clubs and
balls everywhere you go," Woods said.


Player, Palmer and Nicklaus remain golf rivals in the development
of new courses in China, where Palmer says the next great
evolution of golf is coming.


"Something that we will see in the very near future are more and
more golf courses in China," Palmer said. "I built the first golf
course in China. And we'll see more and more golf courses in
Russia. That's happening now.


"Call them whatever you want, the governments. Whether it's
Communist or Socialist or democracy, whatever - the wealth of the
world is enjoying the game of golf now and we are going to see
more and more golf courses.


"I'm building one in Beijing, doing Asia quite a lot, and Gary
Player is doing the same thing and so is Jack Nicklaus. So we're
competing. I think it's wonderful and I think it will get bigger
and better."

