

Need an autograph? It's 20 dollars; a photograph? That will set
you back 100.


Barbadian cricket legends are making fans, already paying hotel
rates which have trebled during the World Cup, even angrier by
charging for signing an autograph book or posing for pictures.


The Cricket Legends of Barbados group, which includes the likes
of Sir Garry Sobers, Charlie Griffith, Gordon Greenidge and
Desmond Haynes, have been making public appearances trying to
raise funds to help build a centre of excellence.


"It's disgusting. I have to pay 100 dollars for a photograph with
Sobers who I have had adored since my childhood," said Surbeet
Singh, who has come from Manchester in England.


Heartbroken over India's first round exit and having to watch a
meaningless Ireland-Bangladesh match instead last week, Singh
went to the Barbados Business Club looking to get Sobers's
autograph.


"I was amazed. The tour has already cost me over 15,000 dollars."


Journalists claim they have been asked to pay 1000 dollars for an
exclusive interview and little wonder Sobers was in the highest
demand.


Fans can also take a sunset cruise with the stars for 200
dollars.


"It was a different kind of heartbreak to see the greatest of the
greats, Sir Garry Sobers, at 73, and well looked after by life
and his achievements, asking for 100 dollars for every picture
his fans wanted to click with him," complained Indian newspaper
the Daily Pioneer.


"He should have been thanking his young disciples for having
loved him so intensely even 34 years after he retired from a game
that has never been slim on heroes."


Fans said it was not the same on other islands.


"We had photographs with Sir Viv Richards in Antigua and he
obliged everyone with autographs. It was only here in Barbados
where we have had to pay," said Kassim Solly.


"We even played beach cricket with some of them in Antigua."


But Deighton Smith, chief executive of Cricket Legends of
Barbados, justified the amounts being charged.


"The legends have no problem with group photos during official
ceremonies but lots of people want separate photographs and
separate interviews which are not possible," Smith told AFP.


"The basic aims (of the group) are two-fold. To create a
professional atmosphere through which we can produce future
legends and to build a centre of excellence through the funds,"
said Smith of the organisation launched in April last year.


Smith said the Barbados legends realise the need for nurturing
the talent which is in abundance in the Caribbean.


"In the wake of West Indies' recent performances we have realised
the importance of harnessing the talent and once the centre is
built, hopefully by next year, we are optimistic we can produce
future legends."

