

With the world's eyes focused on its nuclear programme,
economists and lawmakers have sounded alarm bells over inflation
in Iran after a conspicuous surge in prices in recent months.


A combination of expansionary economic policies, US pressure on
the banking system and high money supply growth is fuelling price
rises in staple goods in the Islamic republic and hitting the
lowest classes hardest.


The research centre run by the conservative-dominated parliament
announced last week that inflation reached 22.4 percent in the
last Iranian year that ended on March 20, well above the official
estimate of 13.5 percent.


A group of 20 lawmakers then published an open statement
protesting against the "uncontrolled and unwarranted rise in
prices of foodstuffs, hygiene products and consumer goods."


"Officials have to do something against unemployment and the
unbridled rise in prices as a matter of urgency," said one
deputy, Asghar Gheranmayeh.


According to parliament's research centre, the price rises look
set to continue in the current Iranian year, with inflation set
to hit 24 percent. Money supply growth -- a key indication of
future price trends -- is seen at a colossal 42 percent.


"There is no control on prices. Beauty products are up by 35
percent wholesale. The price of cooking oils has also gone up by
35 percent," said one storeholder who declined to be named.


Shopkeepers used the recent New Year holiday period to raise
their prices when people returned from the break, with the price
of fruit going up by 21.6 percent in the space of a week.


"A big bottle of Coke has climbed to 7,500 rials from 6,000 and
the orange juice that I buy has doubled in price. My hairdresser
has also raised his prices by 40 percent," complained one Iranian
consumer.


The central bank has also issued a new high-denomination 50,000
rial note (about five dollars) in a move that appears linked to
the rising prices, although the authorities deny any connection
with inflation.


Economists have long pointed the finger towards the government of
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who was elected in 2005 on a
platform of helping the poor reap the benefits of Iran's oil
wealth.


Since his election, Ahmadinejad has toured the country making
promises to local people of new infrastructure and social
projects, fuelling a spike in government spending and warnings of
inflation.


"Since Ahmadinejad took office in 2005, the focus of economic
policies has shifted towards reducing social and regional
disparities," the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said in a
country report published last month.


"This new approach has used much of the additional revenue from
high oil prices to finance higher government spending."


The government denies that its policies harbour inflationary
pitfalls, saying that extra revenue from high oil prices has
allowed it to splash out on projects.


But further upside pressures on prices could come from a bill
agreed by parliament to enforce a rise in Iran's heavily
subsidised and extremely cheap petrol prices from early summer.


"There will certainly be an effect from this rise on other
products," said Mohammad Reza Behzadian, a former president of
Iran's chamber of commerce.


Compounding these domestic factors is Western pressure over
Iran's controversial nuclear programme.


The United Nations has already imposed two sets of sanctions, and
more significantly for the economy the United States is leaning
on European banks to reduce their business with Iran.


"We are now obliged to pay significant amounts of interest (after
the US moves) and this has an impact on the prices," said
Behzadian.


"The year started badly with a (second) UN Security Council
resolution and new sanctions. We will soon have a new resolution.
This will undeniably have an effect on prices," he added.


The consequences of the price rises are already being felt by the
low-income bracket.


Hundreds of Iranian teachers -- who earn between 200 and 300
dollars a month -- protested outside parliament three times in
March, demanding that their salaries be brought into line with
those of other government employees.


The protests led to the arrest of at least a dozen teachers in
Tehran and the Western city of Hamedan, according to reports,
including the head of the Iranian teachers' union, Ali Akbar
Baghani.

