

Voting for Syria's new parliament began slowly on Sunday, amid
official reports of lack of enthusiasm in a poll which opposition
activists have urged supporters to boycott.


Only a trickle of voters could be seen heading to polling booths
on the outskirts of Damascus.


In Sabaa Bahrat square in the heart of the capital, young
activists wearing party green shirts and caps outnumbered
ordinary voters who they were lobbying on behalf of their
particular candidate.


Nearly 12 million Syrians are eligible to vote, according to the
official SANA news agency, which also reported that 2,500
candidates were standing for the 250 seats in the assembly.


Earlier, the agency had said more than 9,000 would-be MPs,
including 1,004 women, were seeking election. Candidates told AFP
that the change was due to "withdrawal by candidates", but gave
no explanation for why they had quit.


Last week in a comment on the polls the official daily Tishrin
said: "Except for the candidates, their relatives and those who
will profit from this commercial festival, (Syrians) have lost
their enthusiasm for the parliamentary elections."


But on the eve of voting, in a more upbeat mood, it said:
"Tomorrow sees a new day for Syria in its democratic journey ...
We must compare, realistically and objectively, the Syrian
democratic experience with that of the world's great
democracies."


The two-day election is the second since President Bashar al-
Assad came to power in July 2000 and results are likely to be
announced on Tuesday.


Voting began at 7:00 am (0400 GMT) and ends at 8:00 pm (1700
GMT). On Monday the polling stations will open at 7:00 am and
close at 2:00 pm (1100 GMT).


Of the 250 seats, 167 are reserved for the ruling National
Progressive Front (NPF) coalition, led by Assad's Baath party.
The party itself is guaranteed 131 seats, or 52 percent of the
total.


The other 83 seats are allocated to so-called independent
candidates "close to the authorities," according to lawyer Hassan
Abdel-Azim, spokesman for six banned, but largely tolerated,
parties operating under the umbrella National Democratic Rally
(NDR).


Abdel-Azim said it was "pointless to take part in an election
whose results are known in advance... The NPF will come out the
winner", as it has done in all organised elections since 1973.


Every single NPF candidate was elected in the last poll held in
2003, with the "independent" seats going mainly to businessmen
and industrialists close to the authorities.


Opposition hopes of increased democracy were raised, falsely, by
the accession to power of Bashar al-Assad in 2000 on the death of
his father Hafez, who had ruled with an iron fist.


Late in 2005 opposition parties which are tolerated but have no
legal status launched an appeal for "democratic change" in Syria,
but the plea failed to bring positive action.


The following May, the authorities jailed 10 opposition figures
who had signed a statement seeking reform in the country's
relations with Lebanon, where Syria was the power-broker for
nearly three decades.


Damascus has been subject to intense international pressure since
the murder of former Lebanese prime minister Rafiq Hariri in
February 2005 in Beirut, for which Syria was widely accused
despite its denials.


Among other demands, the opposition wants a modern law
authorising the creation of parties other than the Baath and its
allies, and abrogation of the state of emergency which has been
in force since 1963.


After the poll, a referendum is planned on a new mandate for
Assad. He received 97.29 percent of votes in a plebiscite after
the death of his father.

