

Millions of undecided voters have added the major element of
uncertainty into Sunday's first round of the French presidential
election.


All opinion polls say right-wing flag bearer Nicolas Sarkozy is a
racing certainty to reach the decisive, second round run-off vote
on May 6.


But the polls also say that about a third of the 45 million
voters are undecided, with many indicating they would only make
up their minds in the hours before heading for the polling
station.


That has given hope to centrist Francois Bayrou and far-right
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen that they can sneak past socialist
Segolene Royal who has been second behind Sarkozy in months of
polls leading up to the vote.


Noone in the French political establishment has forgotten Le
Pen's stunning feat in 2002 when he beat the socialist candidate
Lionel Jospin in the first round to reach the runoff.


Analysts say the months of campaigning by Sarkozy, Royal, Bayrou,
Le Pen and their rival Trotskyist, ecologist and nationalist
candidates has left the public more confused than decisive.


There is also a greater awareness of tactical voting.


There has been much talk of some left wingers voting for Bayrou
instead of Royal in a bid to have a better chance of stopping
Sarkozy in the second round. Could a protest vote for ecologist
Dominique Voynet in the first round help Le Pen reach the runoff
again?


Jerome Perani, a 37-year-old marketing executive for a Paris
technology firm who voted Socialist in 2002, said he was
considering voting Bayrou this time as a "purely tactical choice
-- almost like game theory."


The authoritative Le Monde newspaper summed up the dilemma facing
the French: "Many voters are not wondering who they should vote
for Sunday, but how: with their heart or their head?"


One recent survey said that only 43 percent of voters considered
that the campaign had helped them. Fifty-nine percent said they
thought the campaign had been of poor standard.


Many polls have indicated that the public has been turned off by
the reliance on personal attacks rather than political debate by
the rival candidates.


All the candidates say France is a country in crisis, social and
economic, but no one platform has grabbed the public.


"No candidate has managed to impress with durable themes," said
Roland Cayrol of the polling organisation BVA.


Cayrol highlighted how the socialist Francois Mitterrand won an
emphatic victory in 1981 because of widespread fears about
employment. In 2002 insecurity was a key topic after a series of
murders and other crimes.


Cayrol said that French voters had wanted a debate before the
first round to help them make up their minds. Now they are
frustrated because it did not happen, though the political
fireworks could still come in the next two weeks between the
finalists in the presidential battle.

