

Democratic lawmakers are poised this week to send Iraq war
funding legislation to US President George W. Bush, who has vowed
to veto the measure if it includes a withdrawal timetable.


Congressional sources say they expect the final legislation to
reach Bush's desk by the end of next week with language setting a
withdrawal of combat forces in 2008 as a goal -- not a
requirement.


But the outcome of the pitched political battle is far from
clear, because Democrats lack the votes to override Bush's veto
and the White House needs the US Congress to approve new spending
for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.


Democratic congressional sources say they expect to reconcile
competing Senate and House of Representatives versions of the 100
-billion-dollar measure, and send the compromise version to Bush
by the end of the week.


The House version would pull US combat troops out by September
2008. The Senate version would begin getting US forces out in
mid-2007 with the goal of having most of them withdrawn by March
31, 2008.


But the shift to the Senate goal may not make a difference at the
White House, where spokeswoman Dana Perino says Bush will veto
any legislation that features a timetable or unrelated "pork-
barrel" domestic spending.


Bush met Wednesday with the top congressional Democrats, House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, but
while both sides called the hour-long chat "cordial," there was
no truce in the war of words over Iraq.


And Reid touched off a Washington firestorm a day later when he
warned that "this war is lost" -- a sentiment shared by roughly
half the US public, according to a spate of recent polls.


"This war is lost, and this surge is not accomplishing anything,
as is shown by the extreme violence in Iraq this week," Reid told
reporters, referring to the US-led security push in Baghdad.


Bush did not directly address Reid's comments, but his
spokeswoman Perino quickly fired back that they were at odds with
US military assessments of the two-month-old effort to quell
sectarian violence in Iraq.


And "if this is his true feeling, then it makes one wonder if he
has the courage of his convictions and therefore will decide to
defund the war," the spokeswoman said late Thursday.


"Who does Dana Perino think she is to lecture the majority leader
of the senate on courage," Reid spokesman Jim Manley shot back on
Friday. "This war cannot be won militarily, it can only be won
politically."


Recent polls suggests that a little less than half of the US
public agrees with Reid that the war is already lost, with a
sizeable number more saying that the United States can still win,
but probably will not.


A Washington Post/ABC news poll published Monday found that 51
percent of Americans believe the United States will lose, against
35 percent who say it will win. The survey had a margin of error
of three percentage points.


A CNN poll released in mid-March found the public evenly divided,
at 46 percent, saying that the United States cannot win. That
survey also had a three- percentage-point error margin.


In a defense of the Iraq war on Thursday, Bush had an answer for
those asking why he does not pay more attention to public
opinion: "I've been in politics long enough to know that polls
just go 'poof' at times."

