

Sudanese-born forward Luol Deng scored 33 points and Ben Gordon
added 24 to lead Chicago over defending champion Miami 96-91 here
Saturday in a National Basketball Association playoff opener.


Deng, now a British citizen, scored back-to-back baskets, the
last a three-point play, to give the Bulls a 92-83 lead with 1:51
remaining.


Miami answered with the next eight points but Gordon and
Argentina's Andres Nocioni, who finished with 17 points, each hit
two late free throws to hold off the Heat.


"They are the champs. We know they won't go down easy," Deng
said. "That's why we're going to play them tough. It's going to
be a good series."


In another best-of-seven Eastern Conference series opener,
Richard Jefferson scored 28 points and former Toronto star Vince
Carter added 16 to spark New Jersey past Toronto 96-91, while in
Detroit, the Pistons held off a late-game challenge from the
Orlando Magic to post a 100-92 victory.


The Bulls had a game-high 14 rebounds by Ben Wallace and a game-
high 11 assists from Gordon, but it was Deng's hot hand in the
second half that made the difference.


"I just took shots in a rhythm," Deng said. "We just did a good
job moving the ball around. I was always open so I got good
shots."


With Chicago clinging to a 92-91 lead, it was Wallace who tapped
a rebound to Deng that led to Gordon's key free throws.


After Dwyane Wade, Miami's top scorer with 21 points, missed a
3-pointer, the Heat fouled Nocioni and the South American star
sank two free throws with 9.8 seconds remaining to create the
final victory margin.


"Our ball movement was really the big thing," Deng said. "If you
don't move the ball well against them, you will be hurting. It
was really the ball movement that won it for us."


Shaquille O'Neal had 19 points and six rebounds but had fouled
out by the final dramatics as the defending champions, weakened
by injuries all season, proved vulnerable to the new generation
of the team Michael Jordan led to six NBA titles in the 1990s.


At Toronto, Carter made only 5-of-16 shots as Raptors supporters
booed their former hero, but he scored nine points in the fourth
quarter to help the Nets capture the first game of their series.


The Raptors made a 17-6 run to begin the fourth quarter but the
Nets held off their hosts, thanks in part to a playoff career
high 16 points by Bostjan Nachbar of Slovenia and 11-of-21
shooting by Jefferson.


"We understand with this much emotion ionvolved they were going
to make a run," Jefferson said, adding that New Jersey's depth
offset Carter's struggles.


"We're a team. It's not just about him. Even if someone has an
off night, down the line we will play great."


Chris Bosh scored 22 points to lead the Raptors, who also had 21
points from T.J. Ford and 16 more from Anthony Parker.


The Raptors rallied within 83-82 with 4:08 remaining


Nachbar scored five points in the final 2:40 and Carter had four,
including a layup and two free throws that kept the Raptors from
taking the ball with a chance to pull even.


In Detroit, Chauncey Billups had 22 points and 11 assists but
Tayshaun Prince nailed the biggest shot of the game as the
Pistons held off the Magic.


Rasheed Wallace scored 16 points for Detroit, which has won three
straight series openers in the first round. The Pistons reached
the Eastern Conference finals last season and the NBA finals the
two previous campaigns.


Billups shot just 5-of-13 from the field, including 1-of-6 from
the 3-point arc, but was a steadying influence. The former NBA
finals MVP continually drove Magic guard Jameer Nelson to the
basket and got to the line at will - nailing 11-of-12 foul shots.


As a result, Detroit cruised to a 91-77 lead with 5:28 left in
the fourth quarter before taking its foot off the gas. Orlando
went on a 13-2 run - capped by Dwight Howard's monster dunk - to
make it 93-90 with 54 seconds left.


But on the ensuing possession, the Pistons' experience paid
dividends.  Richard Hamilton drove the ball into the lane and
found Prince, who darted along the right baseline, absorbed
contact and converted a tough layup to make it 95-90 with 37
seconds left. He missed the ensuing free throw.


Prince shot 4-of-7 from the field and dished out six assists, and
Wallace was 6-of-12, including 3-of-5 from the arc for the
Pistons.


Howard collected 13 points and 19 rebounds for the Magic, who
shot a blistering 58 percent but committed 20 turnovers.

