

A radical Australian government plan to cut water to drought-hit
farmers risks turning the nation's food basket into a dust bowl
and will hobble national economic growth, according to experts.


Prime Minister John Howard announced last week that the
"unprecedentedly dangerous" drought crisis meant water to farms
in the fertile Murray-Darling basin would be shut off unless
heavy rains fell by mid-May.


Howard said the water was needed for urban communities but
acknowledged the move was likely to force Australia to import
more food, impede overall economic growth and cripple agriculture
in the Murray-Darling.


Covering more than one million square kilometres in the southeast
of Australia, the Murray-Darling basin is the country's largest
river system, almost three times bigger than Japan and four times
larger than Britain.


It is Australia's rural powerhouse, producing more than 40
percent of the nation's agricultural produce, worth 10 billion
dollars (8.3 billion US) a year, according to the government's
environment department.


The Murray-Darling supports half the nation's sheep flock, a
quarter of the cattle herd and three-quarters of all irrigated
land.


Howard said the situation was "grim", predicting the drought
would drag on the economy, which grew by a lower-than-expected
2.8 percent in 2006.


"We know already that the drought has taken three-quarters to one
percent off our growth -- the longer it goes on the harder the
impact," he said.


The government-commissioned report that Howard based his decision
to restrict water flows on also predicted severe impacts unless
the drought that has lasted up to a decade in parts of the
Murray-Darling broke soon.


"Economic and social impacts would be substantial," it said,
adding that rainfall in the past year had been only 60 percent of
the previous minimum and had taken authorities by surprise.


"The rapid deterioration in water resource availability that has
been experienced is unprecedented, and so the seriousness of the
situation could not immediately have been predicted."


Treasurer Peter Costello said the fear was that the so-called
"big dry" would lead to a spike in retail food prices, feeding
onto inflation.


Costello cited the impact of Cyclone Larry in tropical Queensland
in March 2006, which pushed up the price of bananas to send
overall inflation skyrocketing beyond the central bank's 2.0-3.0
percent target band.


Costello said the impact of the drought could hit more product
lines.


"We saw it with Cyclone Larry in north Queensland, the price of
bananas went up four or five times.


"That's what you could be seeing in relation to stone-fruit,
horticulture, all those things ... it's not good news."


National Farmers' Federation chief executive Ben Fargher said the
dairy, sheep, grape, fruit and horticulture industries would all
struggle without a water allocation.


"They are big economic contributors," he said. "A lot of those
tree crops are quite labour intensive and contribute a lot of
support jobs in regional communities."


Terry Sheales, the chief commodity analyst at the federal
government's Australian bureau of agriculture and resource
economics, said the drought would have a major impact on
Australia's exports.


"It's also very important to Australia's overall export
performance," he told ABC radio.


"For example, around about a bit over 20 percent of all of our
merchandise exports come from the farm sector. As a general sort
of comment, roughly two- thirds of everything produced on farms
goes to export."

