

The remote Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan said Sunday it was ready
to transform itself from an absolute monarchy to a democracy
after a test-run election hailed as a success.


"The first of the two-phased mock elections was a great success
and we are now ready to usher in democracy," Dasho Kunzang
Wangdi, Bhutan's chief election commissioner, told AFP by
telephone from the capital Thimphu.


Saturday's dummy elections were designed to familiarise residents
of the "Land of the Thunder Dragon", who have never had the
chance to vote before, with the workings of parliamentary
democracy.


The exercise is part of a plan by former king Jigme Singye
Wangchuck -- who handed his crown to his Oxford-educated son,
Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in December -- to change with the
times and assume a more ceremonial role.


An estimated 400,000 people were eligible to vote in the tiny
Buddhist nation, which is about the size of Switzerland and sits
sandwiched between India and China.


But turnout appeared low at about 30 percent, with just 124,747
votes cast in the 47 constituencies.


Voters were given a choice of four fictional parties -- the Blue,
Green, Red and Yellow Druk parties. The Druk, or Thunder Dragon,
is the national symbol.


Each party had a fictional platform: the Blue party stood for
industrial development, the Greens for environmental protection,
and the Red Druks for free and fair government.


But it was the Yellow Druk party, which stood for "ensuring unity
of the country through preservation of traditions, culture and
values" that appeared to be ahead in preliminary results.


The party got 55,187 or 44 percent of the votes cast, followed
closely by the Red and the Blue parties, with the Greens
trailing, Wangdi said.


The top two parties will go into a second round of dress
rehearsal polls on May 28.


Some observers saw the outcome of Saturday's exercise as an
indicator that the Bhutanese still prefer royal rule.


"Given a chance, people in Bhutan would still go with the
monarchy as this age- old system helped the nation grow and
prosper in all spheres," said Kaka Tshering, editor of the state-
run Bhutan Broadcasting Service.


The previous king famously decided to make the Buddhist nation's
priority not its gross domestic product, or GDP, but "gross
national happiness."


The transition to full-fledged electoral politics has had its
hiccups, with the election commission complaining last month that
appeals for people to form new political parties had fallen on
deaf ears.


"Now we want political parties to be formed as there cannot be
democracy without multiple parties," Wangdi said, with a July
deadline for the registration of political parties approaching.


So far two fledgling parties have been formed -- but some older
Bhutanese have appeared less than enthusiastic about democratic
politics.


"We don't know if politics is good for Bhutan," said 65-year-old
P. Dendup, a retired government official, in the town of Samdrup
Jongkhar along the border with India.


"We still have faith in the monarchy," he said.


Home to 600,000 people and known as a Shangri-La of stunning
beauty, Bhutan's transition to democracy began in 2001, when the
hugely popular former king handed over the powers of daily
government to a council of ministers.


A draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has also been sent to the
Bhutanese people for their views ahead of the 2008 polls. The
constitution will replace a 1953 royal decree giving the monarch
absolute power.

