

The clock is ticking for Pretoria whose mediation in Zimbabwe's
political crisis is off to a sluggish start as looming elections
leave little time to bring about results, according to analysts.


International hopes are pinned on President Thabo Mbeki's ability
to initiate talks between President Robert Mugabe's ruling party
and an opposition that he has set about brutally crushing over
recent weeks.


However with Mbeki's limited mandate to go where he and others
have failed before, less than a year until Zimbabwe is expected
to hold its elections and Mugabe as bullish as ever, many expect
the process to be a lacklustre effort.


According to the political analyst Moeletsi Mbeki South Africa's
much-criticised policy of quiet diplomacy was a "do nothing
scenario".


"The government's response I think is to be seen to be trying to
do something, but there is no threat to its own interest which
makes it want to make a serious investment to bringing about
change in Zimbabwe," said Mbeki of the South African Institute of
International Affairs.


Two past mediation efforts, by president Mbeki and former
Mozambican counterpart Joaquim Chissano ended in stalemate, and
yet again Mugabe seems unwilling and Mbeki unable to force the
opposing sides to solve their problems.


When asked whether time was running out for South Africa, an
expert in regional politics at Pretoria's University of South
Africa, said: "Most certainly, they have got the mandate and they
will try their best, but the prospects of success are unlikely."


This week Foreign Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma warned that
South Africa could not be expected to "do any magic" with its
troubled neighbour while her deputy, Aziz Pahad, said that the
mediation efforts were only at the "pre-dialogue" stage.


Mugabe's ZANU-PF party seems intent on making it as difficult as
possible for mediation to succeed, refusing to talk until the
opposition toes its line.


"They must sever their diabolical links to former colonisers and
embrace democratic principles to ascend to political power," said
an editorial in the latest edition of the party mouthpiece The
Voice.


"If that is not done, then there is no chance ZANU-PF can talk to
them as it is tantamount to supping with the devil."


Lovemore Madhuku, head of Zimbabwe's National Constitutional
Assembly, said Mugabe had shown no interest in dialogue and had
only agreed to mediation to appease his peers in the Southern
African Development Community (SADC) who asked Mbeki to step in
last month.


"We knew these talks were never going to succeed, it is Mugabe's
technique of buying time," he told the South Africa-based Mail
and Guardian.


With elections a matter of months away, the MDC is currently
refusing to take part as scores of its members are beaten up and
its rallies banned.


"There is not much motivation for the ZANU-PF to honestly go into
the negotiation process," Kotze told AFP.


By appearing to cooperate with mediation efforts, Mugabe would
hope to convince his peers in SADC that the elections will be
free and fair.


"If he can demonstrate he was willing to participate in the
mediation process and put the blame on the opposition saying they
didn't want to participate in dialogue, then it will obviously
strengthen his position."


The analyst Mbeki, who is the president's brother, said the South
African government had no drive to do anything serious about the
situation across the border as its dominant political elites were
not affected by it.


He said these elites were only concerned with wealth
redistribution, and the millions of Zimbabwean refugees pouring
into South Africa only affected the country's poor who had to
compete with them for jobs.


"So it's not the elite that get affected it's the poor that get
affected. In this situation there is no need for South Africa to
take any action about what is happening in Zimbabwe because it
doesn't affect their interests."

