

Gordon Brown was handed a huge boost Sunday in his bid to become
Britain's next prime minister when the only man many MPs believed
could stop him said Brown would get his support.


Several allies of Prime Minister Tony Blair thought Environment
Secretary David Miliband was the only one among them with a
chance of beating finance minister Brown in the battle to become
leader of the governing centre-left Labour Party -- and therefore
British premier.


But Miliband, who has consistently said he would not stand in the
forthcoming contest, definitively ruled himself out and pledged
to vote for red-hot favourite Brown.


However, he laid down a series of policy areas where he expects
Brown to develop Blair's legacy. The Labour leader since 1994,
Blair is expected to step down within the coming weeks, after 10
years as prime minister.


"I will vote for Gordon Brown to lead Labour's drive," Miliband
wrote in The Observer newspaper.


"I have watched him and worked with him for nearly 20 years. He
has in the last 10 years done great things for living standards;
no-one is better qualified to lead across a wider canvas.


"I said three years ago that I would not be a candidate for the
leadership. I meant it and have not wavered from that view.


"I certainly am not in the business of waiting to pounce on local
or Scottish and Welsh election results to change my mind."


Blair is expected to step down shortly after the May 3 elections
to the Scottish Parliament, the Welsh Assembly and English local
councils, triggering a seven- week campaign to select and install
a successor.


Opinion polls indicate Labour could face a battering.


Miliband demanded that Brown weld the "good things about New
Labour, from a strong economy to investment in public services"
with a "new emphasis on the power of individuals to shape their
own lives."


Miliband's announcement does not mean for certain that Chancellor
of the Exchequer Brown will not face a Blair loyalist.


Former education secretary Charles Clarke is a fierce critic
determined not to see Brown seize the crown, and former health
secretary Alan Milburn is right beside him.


Tough-talking Home Secretary John Reid could be the Blairite to
stand.


In an interview to be broadcast Sunday on GMTV television, Reid
said only: "By saying that I won't discuss it, by definition you
don't rule in or out.


"I'm sure the prime minister will make his views more specific,
and when he does that, we will all have the chance to make sure
that we express our views."


Brown, 56, told Saturday's Daily Mail newspaper that he expected
a leadership battle with rival candidates, urging challengers to
come forward.


But the Scot hinted that he would quit politics altogether if he
felt he could no longer make a difference.


"I just say to people that if they want to stand, then please
feel free to do so, because I'm ready to put my views and
experience to the test," he said.


Fringe left-wingers John McDonnell and Michael Meacher intend to
stand, but they may not be able to muster the 44 nominations
needed from fellow Labour MPs.


Former environment minister Meacher said he had the backing of 25
MPs so far and expected to gain more from the 15 who are
supporting McDonnell.


"The overwhelming majority of those will switch to me if John
realises he can't make it and drops out," Meacher told The Sunday
Telegraph newspaper.


Meacher said he was "sick and angry" over the "staggering degree
of inequality" in Blair's Britain.


Bookmaker Ladbrokes had Brown at 1-10, followed by Miliband at
11-2, Reid at 20-1, then Milburn and Education Secretary Alan
Johnson, both at 33-1 to become Labour's next leader.

