

Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf heads to Europe on Sunday for
a week of talks but all eyes will be on a meeting in Turkey with
his Afghan counterpart Hamid Karzai.


It will be the first-ever visit by a Pakistani head of state to
Spain, Poland and Bosnia but his talks with Karzai -- with the
two men at odds over the resurgent Taliban movement -- will be
the focus of international attention.


Karzai and other Afghan officials have repeatedly blamed Pakistan
for failing to prevent Taliban-led militants, holed up in bases
in Pakistani tribal areas along their common border, from
carrying out attacks in Afghanistan.


There have even been allegations that Pakistan is actively
supporting the militant Taliban, who were ousted from power in
2001 but have been waging an increasingly deadly insurgency in
Afghanistan. Pakistan has denied the charges.


Before heading to Turkey, Musharraf will meet the leaders of
Spain, Poland and Bosnia for talks on trade links, defence
cooperation and terrorism, the foreign ministry said.


"International and regional issues of mutual interest, including
Pakistan-India relations, Afghanistan, Iraq, the Middle East and
the fight against international terrorism will be discussed," it
said.


Bilateral agreements on defence, air services, economic
cooperation, culture, education, science and technology, banking
and development of small and medium- sized enterprises will be
signed, the ministry statement said.


In Warsaw, Musharraf will meet President Lech Kaczynski, Prime
Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski and business leaders.


In Madrid, Musharraf will meet King Juan Carlos I and Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero.


The Pakistani leader will address the Spanish parliament and meet
with Spanish business leaders. He also plans to visit the city of
Cordoba to address students.


Spain is one of Pakistan's largest trading partners in Europe and
the nation has an estimated 70,000-strong Pakistani community.


Musharraf's engagements in Sarajevo will include discussions with
the chairman of the tripartite Bosnian presidency, Nebojsa
Radmanovic, and Prime Minister Nikola Spiric the statement said.


He will address a joint session of the Bosnian parliament and
meet with business executives as well as members of the Religious
Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina.


Special ceremonies will be held in all three countries to honour
citizens who participated in relief efforts after a huge
earthquake killed 73,000 people in Pakistan in October 2005.

