

Like many other republics, including the United States, France
holds both presidential and parliamentary elections under
universal suffrage.


However unlike many countries, France holds its elections in two
stages.


In the first round -- which takes place on Sunday for this year's
presidential poll -- voters are invited to support the candidate
closest to their hearts.


Unless a candidate wins an absolute majority in the first round
-- which has never happened in modern presidential polls, but
often does in parliamentary ones -- a second round is held two
weeks after the first.


The second round -- due on May 6 this year -- is fought by only
the two frontrunners from the first.


This obliges all those whose first-round candidates were
eliminated to either choose one of the two remaining ones, or
abstain.


Until a reform of the presidential term brought in by President
Jacques Chirac in 2000, the president was elected for a seven-
year term, whereas the parliamentary term was five years.


Although this system worked reasonably well during the long years
of Gaullist domination between 1958 and 1981, it started to cause
problems when the Socialists began winning elections.


It then became possible to have a president from one camp ruling
over a parliament dominated by the other, a situation known here
as "cohabitation."


The French president's extensive powers, which include the
ability to dissolve parliament and provoke early elections, can
add a further joker to the pack.


Chirac, who burned his fingers with an ill-advised dissolution in
1997, decided to make the parliamentary and the presidential
terms the same.


For that reason, the upcoming presidential poll will be followed
in June by a parliamentary vote, in which the new president will
be hoping to gain a majority in his or her favour.


The two-round system, which reflects France's traditionally
fractured party system, has frequently thrown up unexpected
results, some of them seen as disastrous by large parts of the
population.


That was the case in 2002, when a divided left failed to see the
danger from the far rightist Jean-Marie Le Pen. When he managed
to make it into the second round, supporters of the left were
obliged to choose between two rightists.


With no less than four candidates seen as potential second-round
material this year, the number of possible outcomes has many
voters biting their nails in anxiety.

