

The telecom and digital audiovisual entertainment businesses are
busy getting TV and video onto mobile devices as screen quality
and content delivery offer ever better viewing experiences.


The big catch, however, is that complex issues continue to stall
the explosion in mobile TV and to cap that, it looks highly
unlikely there will big financial returns, at least in the short
term, industry experts said here this week.


This is "a crucial juncture," Telecom Italia Media CEO Antonio
Campo Dall'Orto told a keynote conference at this year's
influential MIPTV/MILIA audiovisual and digital entertainment
show here, which closed its doors Friday.


Mobile TV was one of the burning issues hogging the limelight as
live mobile broadcast TV starts to be rolled out around Europe,
the Middle East and India.


Hardly surprising given that the European Commission estimates
that the world mobile TV market will be worth a whopping 11.4
billion euros (15.5 billion dollars) by 2009.


That prospect attracted the large numbers of chief honchos from
the world's leading telco companies, who jetted in to rub
shoulders and do business with the brightest brains in the
content world.


For the first time, they were joined by some of the biggest names
in the advertising world who are taking a serious look at moving
into the mobile space big-time.


All of that sparked a brisk bout of buying and selling in mobile
TV content over the five-day trade fest.


With TV on-the-move already a big hit in South Korea and Japan,
the rest of the world has been eagerly anticipating a similar
take-off outside Asia.


But that hasn't happened yet.


Most of the industry experts here this week agreed there was a
big future for mobile TV. But no one knows yet what just when it
will arrive, far less what it will finally look like.


"We're just at the beginning of putting entertainment onto
cellphones," Andrew Bud, executive chairman of the world's
largest mobile billing network, mBlox, told AFP.


Bud said it could take another two to three years at least before
large numbers of cellphone users can look forward to enjoying
their daily TV or video fix on the move.


"This will be a terrific business by 2009 or 2010," Budd told AFP
in an interview.


But that doesn't mean to say that mobile services don't make
money, Bud noted.


The mobile content industry today is worth some 20 billion
dollars, nearly asmuch as the 30-billion-dollar Internet
business, experts said here.


Most of that revenue, though, continues to be ringtone-driven
rather than mobile entertainment content.


But a new, and potentially huge, source of revenue could come on
stream soon from advertising on mobiles, industry experts
predicted.


This prospect was highlighted in a recent report by USA-based
JupiterResearch. It forecast that total advertiser spending on
mobile marketing, including messaging and display ads -- and
excluding creative -- was set to more than double from 1.4
billion dollars in 2006 to 2.9 billion dollars by 2011.


Technical hurdles remain a major stumbling block, particularly in
Europe where the debate continues to rage over what standard
should be adopted for mobile TV.


Most European countries as well as several Asian nations and
Australia are currently testing the DVB-H standard used by
digital terrestrial TV that offers high-quality mass broadcast
capability for mobile.


This problem needs to be solved quickly as some 3G networks are
struggling to cope with the capacity needed to stream live video
and TV.


The market also needs to have a better idea of what people want
to watch on their mobiles and for how long, plus how much money,
if any, they are willing to pay for the service.


Bouygues Telecom's Benoit Louvet revealed that their recent
surveys suggested that clients would be willing to pay around
seven euros a month for the service.


SFR clients pay 12 euros a month to subscribe to its 3G mobile TV
service that offers 80 channels. The French mobile operator said
here that the number of its 3G cellphone users jumped 50 percent
in barely three months to 140,000 from 70,000 at end-December.


Many participants here this week though were fascinated to learn
what's happening in market-leader South Korea, where the two
mobile TV broadcast platforms together have a staggering 4.5
million subscribers.


One of the leading services there run by Korea's SBS is a free
and ad-supported.


Peak viewing times in the country coincide with commuter hours
and most operators are not making much money for the moment, SBS
senior exec Hyoung Wook Kim told a conference here.


But with 10 million users expected to have signed up to the
services by the end of this year, Mr Kim was upbeat. "If we have
that many users, we hope the advertising will follow," he
predicted.

