

The International Maritime Bureau on Sunday warned seafarers to
remain on alert while travelling on the piracy-prone Malacca
Strait despite a fall in attacks.


Pottengal Mukundan, London-based director of IMB, told AFP that
there was "no room for complacency," since pirates were merely
lying low due to aggressive patrols by Indonesia, Malaysia and
Singapore.


Mukundan said if the three Southeast Asian countries that border
the Malacca Strait let up in their patrols, "pirate attacks will
rise again."


Maintaining and securing the waterway has always been regarded as
the responsibility of the littoral states that border the sea
lane -- Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.


The three Southeast Asian countries have implemented several
security measures, including coordinated air and sea patrols, to
secure the Malacca Strait, one of the world's most important and
busiest waterways.


Mukundan said the IMB welcomed any move by the littoral states to
upgrade security in the strait, including joint patrols.


"It will be a great step forward to improve security in the
strait. It will be a great help to the industry," he said.


Malaysia recently said it was ready to study ways to boost
security in the Malacca Strait, including conducting sensitive
joint maritime patrols with Indonesia and Singapore.


Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak said there were "regional
sensitivities" to overcome -- joint patrols could allow warships
from one country to enter another's territorial waters -- but
flagged Malaysia could warm to the plan.


More than 30 percent of world trade passes through the strait,
and the volume of traffic has increased dramatically, with more
than 62,600 ships using the strait in 2005, up 42 percent from
44,000 ships in 1999.


Half of the world's oil shipments travel through the waterway.


Mukundan said a new problem posing a risk to seafarers was the
rise in incidents of hostage-taking and kidnapping.


"It is a worrying trend, especially in Somalia and Nigeria," he
said, referring to incidents in the first three months of 2007.
He declined to elaborate.


The IMB will release its first quarter piracy report on Tuesday.


Mukundan said last year 263 crew were taken hostage or kidnapped
worldwide, adding that three people had not been recovered,
"believed to be killed."


In June, maritime experts and enforcement agencies will gather in
Malaysia to discuss new challenges to seafarers worldwide at an
event organised by the IMB and a local law enforcement agency.

