

South Korea agreed Sunday to provide 400,000 tonnes of rice to
North Korea starting in late May on condition the North moves
towards shutting down its nuclear programmes, officials said.


"Out of humanitarian considerations and brotherly love as the
same nation, the South will provide 400,000 tonnes of rice (in
the form of a loan) to the North," a joint statement issued at
the end of bilateral economic cooperation talks in Pyongyang
said.


The 10-point official statement did not mention the South's
demand that the North starts moves to freeze its nuclear weapons
programmes under a February deal.


But South Korean delegates made it clear to the North Korean side
throughout the talks that the rice aid would be conditional on
the North taking steps towards denuclearisation, media pool
reports said.


"We made clear that it would be difficult for us to proceed with
the rice aid as scheduled unless North Korea acts to fulfil the
February 13 agreement," Chin Dong-Soo, chief South Korean
delegate, told journalists in Pyongyang.


"We told them clearly that it would be difficult for either
(South Korea's) parliament to approve (the rice aid) or the
international community to understand it if the February
agreement is not being implemented," he said.


He said the North's compliance with the nuclear deal was "the
key" for receiving the rice aid.


The two sides were originally scheduled to wrap up the four days
of talks in Pyongyang with a joint statement on Saturday, but the
talks were extended until Sunday as the two sides haggled over
food aid and nuclear disarmament.


Seoul suspended its massive shipment of rice after the North's
missile tests last July. Ties soured further after Pyongyang's
October nuclear test, but improved when the North returned to
six-nation nuclear disarmament talks.


The North missed an April 14 deadline under a February six-nation
nuclear disarmament deal to move to shut down and seal its
Yongbyon reactor, which produces the raw material for plutonium
to make bombs.


The South pushed to insert a phrase in the joint statement that
says the two sides should make joint efforts to implement the
February agreement, the pool reports said.


However, the North is strongly opposed to linking aid to
disarmament and rejected it.


North Korea said Friday it was still working to solve a banking
dispute which is blocking progress on its nuclear disarmament.


Analysts said the delay indicated the complexity of the dispute
over the 25 million dollars in Banco Delta Asia (BDA) even after
the North's accounts in the Macau bank were officially unfrozen.


The United States welcomed a renewed North Korean pledge Friday
to start shutting down its nuclear programme once the banking
dispute is settled, but urged the communist state to act quickly.


"The statement is positive," State Department spokesman Tom Casey
said.


"Glad to hear that they are on record again as saying not only do
they support and intend to fulfil their obligations under the
February 13 agreement, but that they intend to do so quickly,"
Casey said.


The US Treasury blacklisted BDA in September 2005, alleging that
some of the North Korean accounts there contained the proceeds of
money laundering and counterfeiting.


In an effort to make progress on the nuclear issue, Washington
announced last week the money was available for collection or
transfer. But foreign banks are reluctant to accept the
transferred cash for fear of being tainted by suspect money.


The two sides also agreed Sunday to conduct test runs of cross-
border railways on May 17 and make efforts to ensure a military
guarantee for their safe operation.


Previous attempts to carry out the test runs failed to come about
as the North Korean military was reluctant to open the sensitive
border areas to commercial traffic.

