

Lyon coach Gerard Houllier broke off from celebrating his side's
sixth French title in a row to demand some assurances from club
bosses.


Lyon wrapped up their record sixth title in succession on
Saturday despite not playing as Rennes's 3-2 win over Toulouse
meant no team could now catch the runaway champions.


But despite winning two titles in his two seasons at the club,
Houllier, who was speaking on RTL television station, said he had
started asking himself questions in the face of a 'media
bombardment' regarding his future.


"So many things have been written and said, even this week, that
I have asked myself some questions, not regarding my future,
because I know what I'm going to do," he said.


"However, there are a certain number of guarantees that I would
like to have and have not yet had.


"One day it's with my staff, the next it's with certain players,
who come to me to offer me assurances ... then it's the club
bosses.


"It's been a more difficult season because we haven't achieved
all our aims but you can't say it's been a bad season.


"In two years there have been 76 championship matches and the
club has been top for 70 of them, given that we will remain top
for the six that remain.


"That's not bad. But if it's not enough, I can understand," said
Houllier ironically. "If not everyone's happy, I'll go somewhere
else."


Houllier was at pains to point out he had no problem with Lyon
president Jean- Michel Aulas, although he called on the club
chief to clarify his future.


"I get on very well with the president. He's a very good
president. Maybe he's not given the credit he deserves because he
provokes and bothers others.


"For a coach, he's a great president because he supports you. But
it's normal that I have some doubts given the media bombardment
that comes my way."


Aulas, for his part, told Canal Plus that discussions with
Houllier on how to improve the team will start next week.


Although he paid short shrift to Houllier's worries.


"Right now Gerard is irreplaceable at Lyon," said Aulas. "When
you are at a club with a budget of between 180 and 200 million
euros and you're the coach of 20 international players, that's
already a guarantee.

