

Australia's Matthew Hayden has said there is no great mystery to
his succcess after carving out another place in cricket's record
books at the World Cup.


The opening batsman's 103 in the champions 215-run Super Eights
thrashing of fellow semi-finalists New Zealand saw him equal the
record of three hundreds at a World Cup held jointly by
Australia's Mark Waugh and India's Sourav Ganguly.


It was also the 35-year-old Queensland left-hander's fifth
hundred in 21 one-day international innings after he was dropped
for the Champions Trophy in India in October and November, a run
that included his Australia record 181 not out against New
Zealand in Hamilton in February.


Hayden, this World Cup's leading run-scorer with 580 at an
average of 82.85 and an all-time Australian tournament best of
158 against Wednesday's semi-final opponents South Africa in a
group match in St Kitts last month, is renowned for his
methodical approach.


This will even extend to walking out onto the pitch in his socks
the day before a game to get used to his surroundings.


"There's no replacing hard work," said Hayden. "I had a bit of a
boost going to New Zealand before this competition, on similar
wickets."


However, he insisted his approach was common throughout the
Australia squad.


"There's not one bloke that's not doing as much work as the
other. It's not just me in this scenario, I've enjoyed great
partnerships along the way," explained Hayden.


The opener put on 137 for the second wicket against New Zealand
in Grenada with captain Ricky Ponting on Friday during the
biggest defeat suffered by a Test side at a World Cup.


"We've worked very hard throughout the (southern) summer on our
one-day game and all elements of our game," added Hayden.


"It's no surprise that we are here at a World Cup at the height
of our games. We are looking forward now to the next two games.
All of what we've been able to achieve means nothing if we don't
go all the way.


"Day in, day out, this side just desperately wants to complete
its skills and give itself every chance to play good cricket.


"That's the discipline of training, the discipline of what we've
been able to achieve over the last seven weeks. More than
anything this side loves big games and big occasions."


And Ponting said Hayden's way was typical of an Australia side
chasing an unprecedented third straight World Cup title.


"It's a very motivated team, with a lot of champion players and
you don't have to motivate champion players," said Ponting.


"It's no coincidence Matty got a hundred. He batted for probably
two hours in the nets the day before."

