

The bloom is gone from Port Harcourt, Nigeria's oil hub once
known as the country's serene "Garden City". It has turned into a
battlefield for the west African nation's oil wealth.


In a space of 50 years, Nigeria has become the world's sixth
largest oil exporter, radically transforming this port city in
the Niger Delta into an oil capital and theatre of violence,
residents and officials say.


Bringing peace to the volatile Delta region, where Nigerian
soldiers and police have been killed and scores of foreign oil
workers kidnapped by rival militias seeking a piece of the oil
fortune, has figured in the country's presidential election, held
on Saturday.


"This is certainly not the city we used to know and cherish," a
woman resident of Port Harcourt lamented.


The port city was founded in 1912 and named after then colonial
secretary Lewis Harcourt. It was originally inhabited by the
Ijaws, the largest ethnic group in the Niger Delta.


Port Harcourt became the capital of Rivers State following its
creation in 1967 by the military. Before then, the territory was
called Oil Rivers Protectorate, a name derived from its abundant
wealth in oil and gas.


Major oil companies such as Anglo-Dutch giant Shell, Chevron and
Agip as well as scores of oil service firms are based in the
sprawling city of four  million inhabitants.


"We have never had it so bad in Port Harcourt. This place is
called the 'Garden City' throughout the world because of its
beautiful layout and decent environment. And because of the
abundance of oil, foreigners and multi-national oil firms make it
their base," Rivers State government spokesman Emmanuel Okah told
AFP.


But an upsurge in violence in recent months has driven hundreds
of foreigners from the city, he said.


"These days, the criminal activities of crude oil thieves,
otherwise known as 'bunkerers', and the kidnapping gangs have
changed people's perception of the city as an unsafe city," he
lamented.


Profits from illegal oil trade is paying for the weapons of the
rival militias, he said.


"The proliferation of arms has given Port Harcourt the notoriety
it has gained," said George Amachree, 67, an ethnic Kalabari
chief who has lived in the city for 45 years. He blamed the
government for the city's poor image.


According to Amnesty International, up to 500 people were killed
in violence in and around Port Harcourt in 2004 alone in clashes
between two rival militia gangs fighting for the control of Niger
Delta waterways so that they could have access to the petrol-
dollar profits coming from the illegal oil trade.


Since the beginning of 2006, when kidnappings increased sharply
in southern Nigeria's oil-producing region, more than 100
foreigners, mainly oil workers, have been seized, either by armed
groups with a political agenda or by criminal gangs out to make
ransom money. Most have been released unharmed within a few
weeks.


About 40 soldiers have also been killed in clashes with
militants.


In Port Harcourt alone, more than 20 police officers have been
killed since 2005, according to state police commissioner Felix
Ogbaudu.


"We have stepped up security efforts to stop this ugly trend.
Only last week, on the night of the April 14 (state) polls, we
lost seven officers during a raid by unidentified militants on
two police stations," he told AFP.


Major Musa Sagir, spokesman for the Joint Task Force (JTF),
agreed that they needed to make the city more secure.


"The military will continue to work with the police to rid Port
Harcourt of miscreants, armed gangs and ethnic militias causing
havoc for people," he said.


Recently, the police announced that a Port Harcourt-based
politician, Clark Igodo, was wanted in connection with a spate of
abductions in the city. Ateke Tom, a militia faction leader, is
also wanted for several bank robberies and attacks on the police.


Militant groups have warned foreign workers, especially from the
oil sector, to leave the city as gangs have stepped up their
violent attacks in the oil hub.


The groups claim to be fighting for a fair share of Nigeria's
huge oil wealth for the local people.

