

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said, in an interview
published Sunday, that he expected his country to be playing a
more assertive military role throughout "the entire world" -- and
have a new constitution to back this ambition.


The comments, made to The Washington Post newspaper and Newsweek
magazine, came ahead of Abe's visit to the United States and his
Camp David summit this coming week with President George W. Bush.


The two leaders were expected to discuss a broad range of
international and bilateral issues, including plans by the Abe
government to rewrite the country's pacifist post-World War II
constitution to cast off many of the restrictions it places on
the country's military.


"I think it is the responsibility of anyone involved in politics
to always think of what Japan can do to contribute more to the
peace and stability not just of Japan and the region but of the
entire world," Abe said in the interview.


Japan had already deployed and pulled out 600 troops from Iraq,
where they took part in rebuilding the relatively peaceful
southern region of Muthanna.


The mission marked the first time since World War II when
Japanese troops were deployed to a country amid a full-fledged
conflict.


The second-largest UN contributor after the United States, Japan
has also joined eight UN peacekeeping operations -- from Cambodia
to the Golan Heights -- and now has about 5,700 personnel
involved in them.


Tokyo had also sent troops to Thailand and Indonesia to help them
recover from the 2004 tsunami.


Meanwhile this year, Tokyo converted its defense agency into a
formal Ministry of Defense, a move that was interpreted by many
as a clear indication of the Abe government's intent to free
itself from some of the shackles of the post-war, US-ordered
constitution.


When asked about his plans, the prime minister said there were
provisions in the Japanese constitution "that no longer suit the
times."


"The security environment surrounding Japan and the entire world
has undergone major change," he explained. "There has been
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against
terrorism and regional conflicts arising here and there."


The United States and other members of the international
community, Abe added, also expected of Japan to make increasing
contributions to "various international challenges."


He said the new basic law "should reflect the shape of the
country we consider desirable in the 21st century."


Despite concerns by some key Asian nations, the Bush
administration has repeatedly encouraged Japan to play a more
active military role outside its borders.

