

Australian doctors revealed Sunday that three people who died
shortly after receiving organ transplants from the same donor
were all infected with a previously unknown virus.


The virus was found in three Melbourne patients who died just
weeks after they received organs from a 57-year-old man who
suffered a fatal brain haemorrhage one week after returning from
Europe.


Australian officials said the infection was similar to
lymphocytic choreomeningitis virus (LCMV), which was linked to
the deaths of several transplant patients in the United States
last year.


"I'm very pleased that out of a sad episode we've been able to
draw some conclusions and find something new in a world first,"
Dr Mike Catton from the Victorian Infectious Disease Laboratory
said.


"It's a new virus and it's a new way of finding the virus."


Catton said tests carried out with the assistance of the Greene
Infectious Disease Laboratory at Columbia University in New York
looked at tissue samples taken from the dead tranplant patients
using new gene sequencing techniques.


The new virus was found in all samples taken from the transplant
recipients but not in tissue taken from the donor.


"The fact that we haven't yet discovered it in the donor doesn't
rule out the fact that this was transmitted from donor to
recipient," he said.


"There's much work that needs to be done characterising this
virus in both laboratories and that will be continuing as we
speak."


Catton said doctors did not know yet how many people could be
infected with the virus or whether it has killed anyone in the
past.


But Australian officials insisted that the new virus did not pose
a threat to the community and was not thought to be an infectious
disease.


"Organ transplant recipients are hit with a variety of drugs to
suppress their immune system so that they don't reject the organ
that's transplanted," Victoria state's acting chief health
officer Dr John Carnie said.


"So if you're immuno-depressed, any kind of infection can have
devastating consequences, whether it's the common cold or
influenza or anything like that."


Australian doctors began investigating in January when three
women who received organs from the same donor died within days of
each other and no common cause could be established between the
deaths.


Two women, aged 63 and 44, each received a kidney while the
donor's liver went to a 64-year-old woman.


Carnie said he hoped the discovery did not lead to calls to stop
the transplant programme.


"This may be an extremely rare one-off event and we don't want to
deprive people of the benefits of a liver or kidney or something
else that would be life-saving for some event that may be
extremely rare," he said.

