

Stand-off James Aridge scored two tries and 10 conversions to
lead Japan to a 82-0 thrashing of South Korea on Sunday.


For the Japanese, who also whitewashed the Koreans in the final
qualifying round in November for the World Cup, it was a question
of how many tries they could score.


And after right winger Christian Loamanu opened the scoring in
the third minute, the floodgates opened.


In the end, left winger Hirotoki Onozawa scored four tries and
Loamanu a hat- trick, while hooker Yuji Matsubara, scrum half
Tomoki Yoshida and centre Koji Taira were also on target.


South Korea only managed to reach the Japanese 22-metre line
twice in the second half, with number eight Han Geun-Gyu coming
as close as one metre, but were unable to cross the tryline.


"I'm 50 percent happy," said Japan coach John James Kirwan. "I'm
very happy with the first half. I felt the players implemented
the game plan pretty well. I think in the second half we lost it
for a while."


"We need to keep implementing in the second half, make sure that
we play for a full game, but I was really happy with the way we
tried the things we trained."


The All Blacks legend said his team has been doing a lot of
technical work, introducing new tactics and techniques and it was
important to try the things they have been practicing.


As for Aridge's play, Kirwan said: "Obviously James had a very
outstanding game, a 100 percent goal kick (record) in difficult
conditions with wind. It's important that we have someone that
runs the game plan and he did it very well."


Korean coach Park Ki-Haeng lamented: "While Japan are preparing
for the World Cup, we ended the Korean league only 10 days ago
and didn't have enough time. I was very disappointed that we
couldn't play well.


"Five or six players got injuries in the league competition and I
had to use some young players. Two thirds of the young players
are candidates for the next World Cup in four years' time.
Hopefully, we can play better against Japan in the future," he
added.


Japan will next play Hong Kong on April 29 in Tokyo, while South
Korea will play an away game against Hong Kong on May 27.

