

Malaysia has won an extention to keep hosting a Formula One Grand
Prix until 2015, despite concerns about its course and talk of a
bid from Singapore, the head of the Sepang circuit said Sunday.


"We have secured a five-year extension from 2011 to 2015,"
Mokhzani Mahathir, chairman of the Sepang International Circuit
(SIC), told AFP.


The announcement comes just weeks after Formula One boss Bernie
Ecclestone took SIC to task, saying the Sepang facility was
"shabby" and needed to be updated.


"There is rubbish all over the place and it's not really a good
sign for Malaysia. We're on worldwide television and it needs to
look good, much like in the beginning," Ecclestone said.


Mokhzani said there were plans for a major upgrade that would
include building an "automotive-related theme park with bike and
go-kart tracks."


It was not immediately clear what effect the announcement would
have on hopes of neighbouring Singapore securing the rights to
host a Formula One race.


But Malaysian Sports Minister Azalina Othman said earlier this
month that while there was "no concern" about Singapore hosting
an F1 race, there should only be one race in Southeast Asia.


Singapore is keen to host a Formula One race and the government
has already given its blessings pending ongoing negotiations
between Singaporean tycoon Ong Beng Seng and Ecclestone.


Ong is bidding for the right to host an F1 race in Singapore
which would be a city circuit, unlike Malaysia's purpose-built
Sepang race track.


"If it comes to Singapore, it will be a complementary
relationship with the F1 in Sepang," Singapore Foreign Minister
George Yeo said earlier this month.


Meanwhile Sepang has been mulling the possibility of night races
as early as next year, and Mokhzani said he was waiting to hear
from Forumla One about the lighting standards that would be
needed.


"With race cars running at speeds above 320 kilometers, you need
lights close to daylight," he said.


Ecclestone has spoken of including night races in Asia on the F1
schedule as early as next season to boost TV audiences,
especially in Europe.


Top drivers including world champion Fernando Alonso have opposed
the plan, citing safety fears.


But others have given their qualified support.


"For me it is okay as long as there is enough lighting," Ferrari
driver Kimi Raikkonen said on the sidelines of the Malaysia Grand
Prix in early April.


His teammate Felipe Massa said: "As long as we can see and as
long as it is safe, why not?"

