

An Indonesian court is set to rule this week on whether US mining
giant Newmont polluted a bay with toxic waste following a drawn
out and high-profile case that has big implications here for
foreign investment.


Five judges are expected to announce their verdict Tuesday in
Manado, on Sulawesi island, where Newmont's now defunct gold mine
allegedly pumped toxins into Buyat Bay, poisoning the water and
marine life, and sickening villagers.


After a police investigation, state prosecutors filed charges in
August 2005 against Newmont's local subsidiary and its head,
Richard Ness, who faces three years in prison if convicted.


Throughout the 20-month trial, Newmont said it disposed of
tailings safely and that levels of mercury and arsenic around the
bay were within normal limits. Ness, required to attend the 53
hearings, expressed confidence Friday that the prosecution's case
had been successfully shot down.


"When you look through this whole trial process, starting with
the prosecution's witnesses, I think almost every one of them
failed to be convincing or their testimony was torn apart by our
lawyers," Ness said in Jakarta.


Newmont, however, has warned that anything less than exoneration
of its subsidiary, Newmont Minahasa Raya, which faces a fine, and
Ness would prompt the company to reconsider its investments in
the resource-rich archipelago.


Whether guilty or innocent, the verdict, being closely watched by
the business community and the US government, must set out clear
reasons for fear of creating uncertainty among foreign investors,
said Priyo Pribadi, executive director of the Indonesian Mining
Association.


"The court needs to give strong evidence on what grounds the
company has polluted the environment. If the verdict contradicts
evidence produced during the trial, it could create a legal
uncertainty in Indonesia for foreign investors," he said.


Indonesia, with a reputation for bureaucratic red tape and
corruption, needs to attract such investment to fuel its economy,
which needs to grow faster than the current annual five percent
to create jobs for the two million people trying to join its
workforce every year.


"At the moment, the main concern of the Indonesian government is
how to create a better climate for investment," said Norico
Gaman, an analyst at BNI Securities.


"The case of Newmont would be an indicator for foreign investors
on whether to allocate their capital in Indonesia. If Ness is
found guilty, there would be legal uncertainty for investors and
it could have a bad impact on Indonesia's interests in the long
term."


Environmentalists, who also closely monitored the trial, are
hopeful the verdict sends a clear warning to foreign investors to
obey environmental laws.


The Indonesian Mining Advocacy Network -- a non-governmental
organisation that helps communities effected by mining -- said
evidence of pollution at Buyat Bay existed despite "efforts to
mislead the public into believing that nothing is wrong there."


"We think that evidence brought by the government through the
prosecutor (during the trial) is strong enough (for a
conviction)," said the network's Siti Maimunah.


The atmosphere Tuesday in Manado will be highly charged, with
several hundred villagers living around the bay,
environmentalists, media and lawyers expected to pack the small
courthouse amid tight police security.


The villagers themselves will be divided between those who
complained of health problems including severe skin conditions
and neurological disorders, and those who say life in Buyat Bay
is normal.


"We hope the judges will show their independence and make a fair
decision based on evidence that has been presented in the court,"
said Dyah Paramita from the Indonesian Center for Environmental
Law.

