

The Nigerian opposition quickly protested over the country's
historic presidential election which was marked by ballot box
chaos, killings and a truck-bomb aimed at the electoral
commission headquarters.


Results from the election, which should set up the African
giant's first civilian-to-civilian transfer of power since
independence in 1960, were not expected before Monday.


But Vice President Atiku Abubakar, one of three front-runners in
the race to take over from President Olusegun Obasanjo, described
the vote as "a national tragedy" marked by "intimidation, fraud
and low participation."


Foreign observers also expressed concern.


Obasanjo pledged after casting his vote there would be no dirty
tricks.


"I want to assure Nigerians that this government is a law abiding
government. It has no reason to tamper with the results of
elections," he said in his native Abeokuta, in the southwest of
the country.


There are three frontrunners in the race to replace Obasanjo. All
are northerners: Umaru Yar'Adua of the ruling People's Democratic
Party (PDP), Abubakar, who defected from the PDP to run for the
opposition Action Congress (AC), and former military ruler
Muhammadu Buhari.


The ballot paper mayhem was partly caused by a Supreme Court
decision this week to allow Abubakar, who is facing corruption
allegations, to run in the election, overruling his
disqualification by the Independent National Electoral Commission
(INEC).


Due to printing errors on some of the 65 million ballots,
parliamentary and senatorial elections were cancelled at the last
minute Saturday in parts of the country, including central Lagos,
and by mid-afternoon voting had failed to get underway at all in
the major northern city of Kaduna.


The European Union observer mission in Kaduna expressed strong
doubts about the election.


"For now the assessment is outspokenly negative ... I'm very
concerned," Max van den Berg, head of the EU mission, told
journalists in Kaduna.


He said the mission had not seen the massive improvement it had
asked for following harshly-criticised elections for state
governors and assemblies last weekend.


To avoid unrest, private vehicles were warcned to keep off roads
in Lagos, the main city, for the presidential election, and
heavily-armed troops threw up roadblocks on key roads.


But police said an attempted truck bomb atack on the INEC
headquarters in the capital, Abuja, had failed just before
polling and seven police heading for election duty were ambushed
by unknown gunmen and killed late Friday in Nasarawa.


In the southern Niger Delta home to the key oil industry
assailants in speed- boats shot at a military base as troops
fanned out across Yenagoa, capital of Bayelsa state, following
shootings and bombings the previous night.


On Friday night gunfire broke out at a Yenagoa hotel where the
ruling party's vice presidential candidate was staying, and
another hotel was reportedly blown up, leaving a number of dead.


Election observers reported brazen fraud in at least two voting
stations in Yenagoa, where they said very little voting at all
went on.


In one station where 500 people were registered to vote, more
than 2,000 votes were counted.


In a second station, polling was over in just two hours and
electoral officials issued round numbers for each party --
exactly 7,000 votes for the ruling party, 2,000 for one
opposition party and 1,000 each for two other parties.

