

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said, in remarks published
Sunday, that he expected his country to be playing a more
assertive security role throughout "the entire world" -- and have
a new constitution to back this ambition.


The comments, made to The Washington Post newspaper and Newsweek
magazine, came ahead of Abe's visit to the United States and his
Camp David summit this coming week with President George W. Bush.


The two leaders are expected to discuss a broad range of
international and bilateral issues, including plans by the Abe
government to rewrite the country's pacifist post-World War II
constitution to cast off many of the restrictions it places on
the country's military.


"I think it is the responsibility of anyone involved in politics
to always think of what Japan can do to contribute more to the
peace and stability not just of Japan and the region but of the
entire world," Abe said in the interview.


Japan has already deployed and pulled out 600 troops from Iraq,
where they took part in rebuilding the relatively peaceful
southern region of Muthanna.


The mission marked the first time since World War II that
Japanese troops had been deployed to a country amid a full-
fledged conflict.


The second-largest UN contributor after the United States, Japan
has also joined eight UN peacekeeping operations -- from Cambodia
to the Golan Heights -- and now has about 5,700 personnel
involved in them.


In addition, Tokyo sent troops to Thailand and Indonesia to help
them recover from the 2004 tsunami.


Meanwhile this year, Japan converted its defense agency into a
formal ministry of defense, a move that was interpreted by many
as a clear indication of the Abe government's intent to free
itself from some of the shackles of the post-war, US-authored
constitution.


When asked about his plans, the prime minister said there were
provisions in the constitution "that no longer suit the times."


"The security environment surrounding Japan and the entire world
has undergone major change," he explained. "There has been
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against
terrorism and regional conflicts arising here and there."


The United States and other members of the international
community, Abe added, also expected Japan to make increasing
contributions to "various international challenges."


He said the new basic law "should reflect the shape of the
country we consider desirable in the 21st century."


Despite concerns by some key Asian nations, the Bush
administration has repeatedly encouraged Japan to play a more
active military role outside its borders.


When they meet here later this week, Bush and Abe are expected to
also discuss implementation of a recent agreement with North
Korea that compels the Communist state to abandon its fledgling
nuclear weapons arsenal in exchange to international energy aid.


Japan is also pressing Pyongyang to free 17 Japanese nationals,
who were abducted by North Koreans in the 1970s and are now used
to teach the Japanese language and culture to members of the
North Korean intelligence services.


Abe said he had already discussed this matter by telephone with
Bush, and the two allies already have their strategy on the issue
"fully coordinated."


"To the extent that the issue remains unresolved, there will be
no normalization of diplomatic relations between Japan and North
Korea, and therefore there will be no attainment of the
objectives of the six-party talks," the Japanese prime minister
warned.


Japan, he added, will not participate in energy assistance for
North Korea, if there is no progress on the abduction issue.

