

South Africa vice-captain Jacques Kallis has warned that
Australia's unbeaten record in the World Cup will count for
nothing when the sides meet in the semi- final in St Lucia on
Wednesday.


"They've played some very good cricket in this tournament, being
unbeaten, while we've had a few hiccups along the way," said
Kallis.


"But now it all doesn't mean much. There's all the hype before
the game but carrying your points through doesn't count for
anything in a semi-final. It's a game where who produces the
goods on the day will win."


Kallis said both teams would go into the match with high
expectations.


"They'll carry a lot of confidence through because of the way
they've played but we're also confident after a massive win
against England."


Staying calm will be a focus of the South African team, according
to Kallis.


"There's no need to stress the importance of the game. It's
important that we stay relaxed and calm. From our perspective the
trip to the Caribbean has been a positive thing.


"We've had some pressure situations, like when we faced possible
elimination in the match against England. We've had some other
close calls to deal with and we've managed to stay calm
throughout."


Kallis is one of four survivors from the dramatic tied semi-final
against Australia at the 1999 World Cup in Birmingham, together
with former captain Shaun Pollock, wicketkeeper Mark Boucher and
batsman Herschelle Gibbs.


All four said after a team practice Saturday that they believed
the experience of playing in what at the time was rated the
greatest one-day game of all time would have positive benefits.


"From our side we gained a lot of experience in that game," said
Kallis.


"Looking back there are a few things that we might have tried to
do differently so the experience we've carried around for all
these years will probably stand us in good stead."


Opening bowler Pollock said he was looking forward to the
challenge of trying to contain or dismiss Australia's hard-
hitting top order batsmen.


"We've had some close encounters against Australia and we've
learnt from those," said Pollock.


"It's the kind of challenge that you want to play cricket for.
You want to come up against the best and if you can win the
battle it gives you real satisfaction. "


Gibbs said there was no pressure on the South Africans.


"Our backs were against the wall (before the game against
England). Now we're just going to go out there and enjoy it."


Kallis said the players weren't sure what to expect from the
pitch in St Lucia but were keen to win through and play in next
Saturday's final in Barbados following their crushing nine-wicket
win over England there.


"We'll look forward to coming back to Barbados for the final. Of
all the wickets we've played on this is the most similar to
home," said Kallis.


"We haven't played the consistent cricket we would have liked but
I think we have peaked at the right time.


"We've beaten Australia in the past and they've beaten us. It
will be the side that is the most relaxed on the day and wins the
key overs that will win the match," he said.

