

Strides in understanding human brain chemistry and genetics are
giving scientists hope they may be able to defuse violent
behavior to avoid tragedies like last week's university massacre
in Virginia, neurologists say.


The shooter, a 23-year-old South Korean who had lived in the
United States since he was a child, killed 32 people before
committing suicide, in the deadliest school shooting in US
history.


"There is no doubt in my mind that if we could have examined his
brain (the killer at Virginia Tech) we would have found
anomalies, and we would have been able to suggest for him to get
therapies," said Dr. Allan Siegel, a neurologist and researcher
at the University of Medicine of New Jersey (UMDNJ).


"We might have been able to avoid this ... if he had been treated
properly in the hospital setting," Siegel told AFP.


Clinical research as well as animal testing, particularly on
cats, over some 40 years has shown that there are specific zones
in the brain linked to aggression and violence, he said.


The front region of the brain, or the prefrontal cortex,
including the limbic system, appears to play an important role in
violent behavior, according to the neurologist.


The killer Charles Whitman, who gunned down 16 people at the
University of Texas in the 1960s, was found to have a tumor in
the temporal lobe in the region of the limbic system, he said.


The link between the prefrontal cortex and violence was first
revealed in 1848 in the case of a railroad worker, Phineas Gage,
whose skull was impaled by an iron rod in an explosion --
damaging the front part of his brain.


Gage survived the accident but his behavior radically changed,
with his formerly respectful, sensitive manner replaced by an
impulsive and aggressive personality. Medical cases since have
linked violent tendencies to damage to the front part of the
brain, Siegel said.


A recent study shows children who suffer injury to the prefrontal
cortex before age seven developed abnormal behavior,
characterized by an inability to control their frustration, anger
and aggression, according to an article in the journal
Neuroscience.


Neurologists believe the frontal region regulates and controls
aggression and violent impulses.


A brain imaging study of 41 murderers found evidence that in most
cases the prefrontal cortex as well as some deeper brain areas,
including the amygdala, functioned abnormally, researchers wrote
in the Neuroscience article.


In the case of the Virginia Tech gunman, a medical investigation
would also have to examine if he suffered a deficiency in his
serotonin system, said Klaus Miczek, a neuroscientist at Tufts
University.


Serotonin is a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system and
low levels have been associated with several disorders.


"Brain sertonin is a transmitter that has been investigated more
than any other transmitter when it comes to violent, aggressive
activity," Miczek said.


A number of drugs have proved effective in controlling violent
impulses by compensating for serotonin deficiencies, said Siegel,
citing prozac and lithium used also to treat schizophrenia.

