

South Korea and the European Union are set to formally announce
bilateral free trade talks this week, government sources said
here Sunday.


The EU is likely to give the go-ahead Monday to the talks and
Seoul will hold a meeting of trade-related ministers this week
before giving the green light for the negotiations, they said.


"When the EU completes the approval procedures on Monday as
scheduled, the opening round of talks will take place here on May
7-11," an unidentified government official told Yonhap news
agency.


"During the first sitting, we will mainly discuss the timetable
and methods for the talks," the official said.


South Korea will put together a delegation of some 50 people
covering four areas -- commodities, investment and services,
regulations and trade disputes.


Trade experts here say Seoul will find negotiations with the EU
less tough than those with the United States as the EU is known
to be more lenient towards its partners' sensitive agricultural
issues.


The benefits to South Korea from a free trade agreement (FTA)
would be tangible as the EU's average current tariff rate for
imported goods is 4.3 percent, compared to the US rate, which
hovers at just over three percent.


South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun said last week that Seoul was
ready to open talks with the EU on an FTA next month.


Speaking after a meeting with Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi
here, Roh said they "shared a common understanding of the
enormous economic effects" such an agreement would have.


After 10 months of tough bargaining, Seoul early this month
sealed a free trade pact with Washington that scraps tariffs on
thousands of items and will boost commerce by billions of dollars
a year.


The negotiations sparked emotional protests, during which a taxi
driver set himself ablaze.


South Korea, Asia's third-largest economy, has been holding
preliminary talks with the EU for about a year. Two-way annual
trade is worth 71 billion dollars compared to 78 billion dollars
between Seoul and Washington.


The state-funded Korea Institute for International Economic
Policy has forecast that an agreement with the EU would help
South Korea expand gross domestic product by more than two
percent in the short term.

