

Iranian officials opened fresh talks this weekend on its nuclear
power plant at Bushehr with the Russian nuclear contractor that
is building it, the company announced Sunday.


The latest round of meetings came despite pressure on Iran from
the United States and the European Union to freeze its civilian
nuclear programme.


"The Iranian delegation arrived in Moscow on Saturday and started
talks with representatives of our company," a spokeswoman for
Atomstroiexport, Irina Essipova, told the Itar-Tass news agency.


The negotiations were over problems linked to the financing of
the construction of the power station, she told the Ria Novositi
agency.


Executives from the Russian company returned to Moscow last week
after talks in Tehran and Bushehr on fitting out the first
reactor, the news agency.


The talks with Tehran focused on financing the project. The visit
to Bushehr, in southern Iran, was to deal with technical aspects
of the project, which was 95 percent ready, Essipova told
Novosti.


On Tuesday, Russian security council secretary Igor Ivanov said
that Russia would not be able to finish the station on schedule
because of technical and financial problems.


"It is clear that we have to extend the deadline. By how long, we
do not know. It is being studied by experts," he told reporters.


The completion of the power station by Atomstroiexport and the
delivery of nuclear fuel by Russia, planned for this year, were
delayed by what Moscow described earlier as financial problems.


Russia had accused Iran of not paying the amounts agreed upon in
a deal reached last September. By the end of March this year,
however, Moscow acknowledged that Tehran had resumed its
payments.


Russia signed the original deal with Iran on the station back in
1995.


Earlier delays in the project were due in part to political
pressure from the United States.


Washington and the European Union want Iran to freeze enrichment
as the process can be used both to make nuclear fuel and atomic
weapons. Iran insists its nuclear programme is solely aimed at
generating energy.


In Tehran Sunday, a foreign ministry spokesman made it clear that
Iran would press ahead with its nuclear programme despite calls
from Washington and Brussels that it be suspended.


"Halting uranium enrichment is definitely deleted from the
literature of Iran's nuclear activities," spokesman Mohammad Ali
Hosseini told reporters.


He was speaking just days ahead of talks scheduled for Wednesday
with EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana.


The UN Security Council has already imposed two sets of sanctions
against Iran for refusing to halt sensitive atomic activities and
has threatened to take further punitive action if Tehran's
defiance continues.

