

With water scarcity becoming a key environmental challenge, the
northeastern Spanish city of Zaragoza is looking to use the 2008
World's Fair which it will host to become an international leader
on the issue.


Located on the banks of the Ebro river, the city of 600,000
people wants to become the "headlight city of water," said
Francisco Pellicer, the technical director of Expo 2008 whose
theme will be "water and sustainable development."


More than seven million people, including one million foreigners,
are expected to visit the fair, which will run for three months
from June 14, 2008.


Exhibits will seek to raise awareness of the importance of water
as well as examine possible solutions to the problem of water
scarcity, which organizers of the fair say is the biggest
environmental challenges of the 21st century.


The United Nations warned at the end of March that two-thirds of
the world's population could be threatened by water shortages by
2025. It estimates that 1.2 billion people currently live in
areas with insufficient water.


One of the main exhibits will be a freshwater river aquarium, the
world's biggest, which will display fish from the Ebro and four
other major rivers: the Amazon, Mekong, Murray and the Nile.


Among the other attractions will be a "water tower" which will
offer views of the fair grounds as well as of the eastern side of
Zaragoza and a moveable exhibit hall that will use mirrors to
simulate the appearance of a mirage.


More than 600 million euros (815 million dollars), 70 percent of
it public money, will be directly invested to develop the
25-hectare (60-acre) exhibition site located on the banks of the
Ebro river, a key source of freshwater for northern Spain.


Another one billion euros will be spent on infrastructure like
new roads ahead of the event.


Nearly 100 nations have so far accepted the invitation of the
Spanish government to take part in the event while more than 150
non-governmental organizations are expected to be present.


Organizers discreetly point out that the United Nations has over
nine bodies which address water problems at various levels which
they suggest could be united into one organization based in
Zaragoza.


Expo organizers have already set up a conference centre at the
fair site which last month hosted over 100 authorities and
experts from 12 Mediterranean basin countries including France,
Lebanon and Tunisia for a water summit.


They also plan to set up a foundation once the fair is over which
will serve as global platform for information on water.


Officials hope Expo 2008 will help put Zaragoza, an agricultural
centre located halfway between Madrid and Spain's second-city
Barcelona, on the map.


The city is "in the middle of nothing" but the fair can put it
"in the middle of everything," said Expo 2008 assistant
commissioner Eduardo Lopez-Busquets.


Organizers can count on the support of locals for their efforts.


More than 15,000 people from the three-province region of Aragon
of which Zaragoza is the capital have signed up to be volunteer
guides at the fair -- including an energetic 103-year-old
pensioner named Guillermo.


Zaragoza was chosen to hold the 2008 world's fair in December
2004, beating out Trieste, Italy and Salonika, Greece.


The first international exposition took place in London in 1851.

