

The furor surrounding World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz exposes
the need for overdue reform of the six-decade-old development
lender itself, according to experts.


"It's as much a crisis of governance as a crisis of leadership,"
said Dennis de Tray, vice president of the Center for Global
Development in Washington, who has worked at both the bank and
the International Monetary Fund (IMF).


"One can only hope that the very real governance and leadership
crisis that recent events have generated at the World Bank will
bring to the surface how fragile the current governance structure
is, and hence set forth an international dialogue on these
issues," he said.


Questions about the World Bank's relevance are being raised,
including whether the post-war settlement under which the bank is
led by an American and the IMF by a European is past its sell-by
date.


"If the international community is interested in seeing the bank
modernize and move into the 21st century, it's going to have a
presidential selection process that is also 21st century," de
Tray said.


European governments have been pressing hardest for Wolfowitz to
bow out over the controversy surrounding his Libyan-born
girlfriend, Shaha Riza, who on his direction was given a generous
pay deal and guaranteed promotions when she was reassigned from
the bank to the US State Department in 2005.


On Friday, bank directors broadened their inquiry into the Riza
affair and promised "to deal with the situation urgently,
effectively and in an orderly manner."


But for one expert close to the bank, the Europeans have only
themselves to blame, after they swallowed their doubts over the
US government's nomination of the former Pentagon deputy chief to
take over the bank two years ago.


"They stood aside when he was nominated as if somehow he had
completely changed," the expert said on condition of anonymity.


"And over the past year all the people I knew (at the bank) were
deeply unhappy -- they saw the things that were happening, but
they didn't say anything."


The "neoconservative" policy wonk who helped engineer the war in
Iraq immediately ruffled feathers at the bank by bringing in
former White House aides as senior advisors.


Wolfowitz went on to prosecute a campaign against corruption with
such zeal that many governments, not least in Europe, worried the
planet's poorest people could be hit twice -- first by venal
officials and then by the World Bank.


But according to Devesh Kapur, a University of Pennsylvania
professor who has co-written a history of the World Bank,
European leaders will have to face up to losing their grip on the
IMF leadership if Wolfowitz departs.


"The Americans will say fine, no one has a monopoly. If we don't
have it here, you don't have it there (at the IMF)," he said.


"The second question is the role of China, India and Brazil. They
are the rising powers and look how completely quiet they have
kept (over Wolfowitz)," Kapur added.


"They want to have it both ways -- they want to have more power
but they don't want to act responsibly."


Whether Wolfowitz stays or goes, the World Bank will still need
to raise up to 25 billion dollars this year from rich donors to
sustain its support for the poorest countries.


And it will still face the challenge of keeping its appeal for
countries like China and India, which increasingly are finding
the strict conditions attached to the bank's loans irksome in an
age of easy global credit.


"People, particularly international diplomats, don't like to rock
boats, and yet most people would agree this system is at best
highly inefficient and at worst not functioning," de Tray said.

