

Shane Watson's detractors have been told to shut up by Australia
captain Ricky Ponting who said the Queensland all-rounder was a
key member of his side's bid for an unprecedented third straight
World Cup title.


Many were wondering what the injury-prone 25-year-old was doing
in the Caribbean while he missed three comfortable victories with
a left calf-muscle injury sustained while bowling against
Bangladesh last month in Antigua.


However, he demonstrated both his fitness and his form heading
into Wednesday's semi-final against South Africa in St Lucia with
a hard-hitting 65 not out in the 215-run trouncing of New Zealand
with which Australia wrapped up their Super Eights campaign.


The Black Caps, who looked like restricting Australia to around
300, instead saw Watson power the double-defending champions to
348 for six.


They had no answer to his blistering 32-ball innings featuring
four sixes and four fours.


Watson then took one for 20 with his brisk medium-pacers as New
Zealand were bowled out for 133, the Black Caps suffering both
their heaviest one-day international defeat and the largest
inflicted upon a Test team at a World Cup.


"It might quieten a few people down, particularly back at home,
that have been casting all these doubts around about Shane Watson
and his value to this team," said Ponting.


"You are not going to see striking like that from somebody who
can't play the game," added the captain of Watson, who was
opening the innings before Matthew Hayden was recalled to the
one-day set-up.


"He's done everything in his power to get back in the side and
his performance was first-class. He looked good with the ball as
well and felt no pain whatsoever, so it's a very encouraging come
back for him.


"Shane Watson is a very talented cricketer and someone who works
extremely hard at his game,"


"He hasn't had a great run with injury over the last couple of
years but if you have a look at his form in the one-day side,
he's hardly put a foot wrong.


"It's great to see somebody that works as hard as he does, gets
the results from his game."


Watson has played just three Tests, injuring his shoulder in his
third appearance in Brisbane in November 2005 against the West
Indies.


He made his one-day international debut in 2002 but his 63-game
career in the shorter format has also been interrupted by fitness
problems.


Chosen for the 2003 World Cup squad, he withdrew because of a
back injury and had to withdraw from Australia's one-day squad
that toured Bangladesh 12 months ago because of a right calf
strain sustained while making 201 in the domestic Pura Cup final.


He then missed the whole of Australia's recent 5-0 home Ashes
triumph against England with a hamstring problem.

