

A British television journalist and a Kenyan camerawoman arrested
for filming a police station in Nairobi were released without
charge, the BBC said Sunday.


Dan Edge, 29, and Susan Kurumba, 27, were arrested Friday after
being caught outside Kileleshwa police station in the Kenyan
capital, sparking concern in Britain.


The pair were filming for British broadcaster Channel 4's news
documentary programme Dispatches.


Citing a Channel 4 spokeswoman, the BBC said the pair had been
released Saturday after being interviewed as terrorist suspects.


The spokeswoman said no further action would be taken against the
two and Edge was now free to fly to Ethiopia as planned to
continue filming.


They were both in good health, she added, stressing that they had
held all the required permits to film a documentary on terrorism
in Kenya.


Edge works for Channel 4 while Kurumba works with Kenya's Vivid
Features.


In Nairobi, their lawyer Harun Ndubi and colleague Steve Grey had
appealed for their release.


Grey said the two were making a documentary on the renditions to
Somalia and Ethiopia of hundreds of people who were arrested by
Kenyan police while fleeing fighting between Ethiopian forces and
Somali Islamists.


"It is about the situation in the Horn of Africa and obviously
terrorism is one aspect of it ... We will go to Ethiopia and see
the situation there, in Somalia -- it is a broad documentary," he
told reporters.


"We were shocked," Ndubi said, adding that they were being
investigated on terrorism grounds "when indeed they came here to
shoot a documentary film on terrorism and the government's
efforts to fight the vice."


In London, Dispatches editor Kevin Sutcliffe said he was
surprised they had been arrested "given that earlier in the day
the crew had been conducting an interview with the Kenyan foreign
minister."


The Kenyan authorities stepped up security after the east African
republic was twice hit by extremists linked to Osama bin Laden's
Al-Qaeda network.


New York-based Human Rights Watch said Kenyan security forces
arrested at least 150 individuals from some 18 different
nationalities at the Liboi and Kiunga border crossing points with
Somalia.

