

Sri Lankans treat cricket as a religion, but the sport has failed
to heal wounds of this deeply divided nation despite its
ethnically-mixed World Cup squad displaying strong unity.


The success of Sri Lanka's multi-ethnic team at the ongoing
tournament is seen as an example of shedding communal
differences, but not many are optimistic that it will stop the
bloodshed.


"Cricket is just a diversion, the moment the tournament ends,
people's attention will focus on the daily body count. Sri
Lankans have short memories," says Sudath Perera, a banker.


Sri Lankans toasted their 1996 World Cup victory raising hopes
that the bonds of a multi-ethnic, multi-religious champion team
would help end the conflict that has claimed over 60,000 lives
since 1972.


It never happened.


"There was a bigger sense of hope during the tsunami. All
communities helped each other, sharing food, medicine and
clothes. The brotherhood disappeared like the tsunami
afterwards," said Anushika Pathirana.


At least 31,000 people were killed and millions left homeless
when giant waves struck Sri Lanka's coastline in December 2004.


The north and east coasts were was among the worst affected and
people forgot ethnic differences and helped each other in the
immediate aftermath.


Even the Tamil Tigers, who are fighting for an independent
homeland for minority Tamils, dropped their guns and worked
alongside government troops in relief work.


"The international community was hoping that the tsunami was a
positive start to end the conflict, but it didn't happen," says
Pathirana, a homemaker. "It was complete wishful thinking."


However, pro-peace activists are gently reminding Sri Lankans not
to let the chance slip the third time around, as the home team
emerge as strong contenders to lift the most sought after cricket
trophy.


The head of the Anglican church here, Archbishop Duleep de
Chickera believes that the ethnic and religious composition of
the national team should be an inspiring example of unity.


"...this characteristic of our team should spur our nation
towards a similar goal of unity in diversity," de Chickera said
in his Easter message.


Master blaster Sanath Jayasuriya is a Sinhala Buddhist, star
spinner Muttiah Muralitharan is a Tamil Hindu, Chaminda Vaas is a
Sinhala Catholic, Farveez Maharoof is a Muslim and Russel Arnold
is a Tamil Catholic.


De Chickera is hoping this time around cricket will build bridges
across communal lines.


Sri Lanka's World Cup team, which plays a semi-final against New
Zealand in Jamaica on Tuesday, is largely made up of players
belonging to the majority Sinhalese community. However, there are
two minority Tamils -- Muralitharan and Russel Arnold.


Buddhist monk Athuruliya Ratana says that it is great that a
cricket crazy country is backing players irrespective of religion
or race.


"Cricket seems to have blurred ethnic lines for a short time,"
the monk said.


However, minorities maintain that ethnicity and religion still
figure strongly when players are selected.


"Just look at our national squad, its mainly Sinhalese who are
Buddhist. Its difficult to build trust when things are staring at
your face," said Shazmil Mohammed, a member of the Muslim
community, the second largest minority in Sri Lanka.


Sri Lanka Cricket, however, was quick to dismiss Mohammed's
claim.


"It's not fair to say cricket is predominately a Sinhalese game,"
says Sri Lanka Cricket secretary K. Mathivanan, a Tamil himself.


"Those days there were few financial incentives for a Tamil to
pursue cricket as a career, so they focused on studies. But I
must say, the Sinhalese are crazy about cricket and passionate on
sports in general," Mathivanan said.


The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) supremo Velupillai
Prabhakaran is believed to be a cricket fan and backed the
national team during the 1996 clash.


However, Tiger spokeswoman Selvy Navaruban was sceptical, saying
the sense of unity will end when the last ball is bowled.


"Any hope that cricket will unite (all commmunities) is a
fallacy."

