

European officials are set for difficult talks with Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Luxembourg Monday, with plans
for an independent Kosovo topping the list of policy rifts.


The meeting between Lavrov, his German counterpart Frank-Walter
Steinmeier and leading EU figures, comes hard on the heels of
weekend talks in Cyprus on another issue souring relations, a
Russian embargo on foodstuffs from EU-member Poland.


Last week the diplomatic wrangling took a new turn when the
German presidency of the European Union voiced concern over a
Russian crackdown on opposition demonstrations in Moscow and
Saint Petersburg and urged Moscow to respect democratic freedoms.


There are also differences over a US missile shield plan and
misgivings within the EU over its dependence on Russian oil and
gas.


EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson warned on Friday that EU-
Russian relations are at their lowest ebb since the Soviet-era
Cold War.


"Neither thinks they enjoy the respect and goodwill from the
other they are entitled to expect," he said.


The accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Union in January
underscored feelings in Moscow that the EU is slowly swallowing
up its old Soviet-era territory.


Russia, along with Serbia itself, is firmly opposed to UN envoy
Martti Ahtisaari's plan for supervised independence for the
breakaway Serb province of Kosovo, and could use its veto when
the matter comes before the UN Security Council, probably within
the next few weeks.


"We're in a very tricky position," one European diplomat said in
Brussels. "Part of the problem is that we don't know if they are
prepared to go all the way" and use their veto.


The European Union supports the UN envoy's scheme, under which it
would play a key administrative and security role in Kosovo,
despite misgivings from some member states including Greece and
Slovakia.


Kosovo, which the EU sees as a future member, has been run by a
UN mission under Resolution 1244, which was passed by the Council
in mid-1999 after NATO bombing helped to end a bloody Serbian
crackdown on Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanians.


Kosovo Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of the
province's two million people, have become increasingly impatient
for independence.


However Lavrov, on a friendly visit to Belgrade on Thursday,
declared "Mr Ahtisaari's plan has failed".


"There will be no stable solution without an agreement," with
implacably opposed Serbia, he said.


Monday's meeting between Lavrov, Steinmeier, EU foreign policy
chief Javier Solana and European Commission External Affairs
Commissioner Benita Ferrero- Waldner comes on the sidelines of a
meeting of EU foreign ministers in Luxembourg.


The European officials will also discuss with Lavrov the agenda
for an EU-Russia summit on May 18 in Samara, on the banks of the
Volga. They are hoping to launch negotiations on a new
partnership agreement, talks which have for months been blocked
by Poland due to the meat embargo issue.


All eyes were on Cyprus on Sunday, the second day of talks
between EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou and Russian
Agriculture Minister Alexei Gordeyev in search of a deal for
Moscow to lift its long-running embargo on Polish farm products.


A first day of talks on Saturday in the coastal city of Limassol
proved fruitless.


"It's tough. Things are difficult. We had different approaches
and we must see if we can come to a compromise to have mutually
acceptable results," said the EU commissioner.


That new broad EU-Russia agreement will be aimed, among other
things, at securing a reliable flow to Europe from Russia's
massive oil and gas fields. The EU is also hoping to persuade
Russia to accept rules governing transparency and reciprocity, in
particular in the area of investment in the sector.


The existing partnership agreement runs out late this year, but
EU officials stress it can be extended in the absence of a new
deal.


Russia, which accuses the Polish authorities of lax practices
over food safety standards, imposed its embargo in November 2005
but Warsaw argues the ban is a politically motivated move against
the former Soviet satellite state.


Brussels and Moscow also find themselves at odds over US plans
for parts of a missile defence system to be based in the Czech
Republic and Poland.


Many in the EU are happy to regard this as a problem for the
United States, Russia and NATO to handle and it is not set to
feature in Monday's talks.


One thing all parties will agree on is the wish that relations
thaw out in time for the May EU-Russia summit.

