

For three months crude oil spills have sullied beaches, mangroves
and aquaculture farms along Vietnam's long coastline, but the
government says the source of the pollution remains a mystery.


While soldiers and volunteers have scraped over 1,600 tons of
congealed oil and sand off Vietnam's shores since late January,
officials remain at a loss to explain whether the oil was dumped
by a tanker or leaked from a platform.


Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has said that Hanoi has asked for
help from its South China Sea neighbours in finding the source of
the slicks, while ruling out the country's own offshore wells as
the origin.


The head of the National Search and Rescue Committee, Nguyen Son
Ha, has said that a possible culprit was a leaking Chinese oil
rig south of Hainan island that was damaged in a typhoon last
year.


As the world marked Earth Day on Sunday, the mystery continued
while the oil kept coming, threatening marine life and impacting
coastal communities that rely on tourism, fishing, and shrimp and
clam farms.


This week, Vietnam's seaside resort of Nha Trang was hit by
another mystery slick, scaring tourists off its usually white
beaches and hitting lobster breeders in neighbouring Ninh Thuan
province.


The government has released no estimates of the economic damage
to the marine sector of a country that has a 3,200-kilometre
(2,000-mile) coastline, amid numerous reports of badly-hit
oceanside industries.


In the Mekong Delta province of Ben Tre, clam farmers have
suffered an "immediate consequence of this disaster," said Keith
Symington, regional marine programme coordinator of the World
Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).


The farms, which were working toward being eco-certified under a
model programme with the communist government and the WWF, "are
now devastated, economically and environmentally, by oil
contamination," he said.


The oil slicks first blackened Vietnam's central coast in late
January, hitting the famed "China Beach" -- a former American
military rest and recreation spot during the Vietnam war -- and
the seashore around the historic port of Hoi An, a UNESCO World
Heritage site.


At first, many shrugged off the black blobs as one of the smaller
spills that have become a regular occurrence along one of the
world's busiest shipping lanes and also a major oil and gas
producing region.


But officials soon realised this year was worse, as carpets of
oil started washing up along an 800-kilometre stretch of coast.


Since then, the oil slicks have spread to the far southern Ca Mau
peninsula and Con Dau island, a remote nature reserve famed for
its turtles where volunteers mopped up nearly 40 tonnes of oily
sand in mid-March.


The state-run Vietnam National Oil and Gas Group has said the oil
did not match that from its own White Tiger and Dragon fields.


Some experts have suggested the oil may have seeped naturally
from cracks in the seafloor, or that oil from older spills may
have been churned up by an oceanographic phenomenon called
upwelling.


One marine environment expert, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said monsoonal patterns supported the theory that some
slicks had been blown from near China's Hainan island toward
central Vietnam.


The China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) recently
named as a likely source in Vietnam's state-controlled Tuoi Tre
newspaper, refused to comment when contacted by AFP in Beijing.


Still, there is hope Vietnam is edging closer to an answer.


This week, its environment ministry asked Japan for help in
detecting the source of the oil spill, a search that may include
sophisticated satellite technology that Vietnam lacks.


In future, said the WWF's Symington, Vietnam needed to step up
its ability to detect, respond to and prevent oil spills.


"The growing amount of international traffic, together with the
expanding marine petroleum economy inside Vietnam, point to the
same conclusion," he said.


"More efforts are needed to ensure the protection of Vietnam's
marine environment and the livelihoods of millions of people
whose lives depend on a healthy ocean environment."

