

Thousands of mine workers in Indonesia's remote Papua province on
Sunday returned to work after a subsidiary of US firm Freeport
McMoRan agreed to salary and benefit demands, a labour activist
said.


"We finally reached an agreement last night at around 11:00 pm
(1500 GMT) and today all workers who are on shift have returned
to work," said Penina Karma, the secretary general of Tongi
Papua, a non-governmental organisation involved in the three-day
protest and the negotiations.


More than 2,000 workers from the giant gold and copper Grasberg
mine started protesting peacefully Tuesday at the headquarters of
PT Freeport Indonesia, which operates the mine, just outside the
town of Timika.


The protracted dispute centres on demands for higher wages,
improved welfare, and better access to higher-level jobs for
Papuan workers.


The rally helped push world copper prices to 8,000 dollars a
tonne amid concerns disruptions could lead to a drop in
stockpiles of the metal.


Karma said that the agreement had been reached with the
executives of Freeport Indonesia and there was no reason to take
the dispute further.


The protestors had initially demanded a teleconference with
Freeport McMoRan executives in the United States.


Mine workers had demanded a minimum monthly wage of at least 3.2
million rupiah (352 dollars). The negotiations finally settled on
a range of 3.1 to 3.6 million rupiah, Karma said.


A spokesman for Freeport Indonesia could not be immediately
reached for comment on Sunday.


The protestors, mostly native mine hands, and Freeport Indonesia,
had on Friday agreed for a special department to be set up within
the company to deal with Papuan affairs.


Freeport Indonesia had already agreed to a management reshuffle,
Karma said. Executives have been accused of discriminating
against native labour.


Critics accuse Freeport Indonesia of not giving enough to the
people of Papua in return for mining rights. They allege the mine
causes pollution and that the military's protection of the site
leads to human rights abuses.


The firm disputes the claims.


Freeport Indonesia operates concessions totalling 3.6 million
hectares (8.9 million acres) stretching from the coast to the
central mountain range at Timika, with its copper reserves
estimated at 2.6 billion tonnes.


It runs its Grasberg mine in southwest Papua under a 30-year
contract with the Indonesian government that began in 1992.
Freeport McMoRan owns 91 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, with
the rest in government hands.

