

Ask most people what they'll be doing on January 15, 2010 and
they probably won't be able to say for sure.


Ask Reid Stowe and Soanya Ahmad, and they'll say they hope to be
pulling into harbor for the first time in almost three years at
the end of a marathon 1,000-day sea voyage testing their
psychological and physical limits.


Stowe, 55, a sailor and artist from North Carolina, is a veteran
of long- distance sailing, having previously spent his honeymoon
with his now ex-wife sailing for 200 days in circles around the
South Atlantic.


His partner Ahmad, 23, a New York photographer, is more of a
landlubber. In fact she's never been out to sea. Nevertheless,
she says she's not intimidated by the prospect of nearly three
years without touching land.


Stowe, who built his 21-meter (69-foot) schooner "Anne" almost 30
years ago, has been planning the trip for some two decades, he
told AFP shortly before pulling out of New York harbor on
Saturday.


"You become at one with the ocean, you don't think about what's
on the land and you learn to adapt and live at sea," he says.


The challenge is not an endurance feat, says Ahmad. "It's not
about the outside world. This is not about making a record, it's
not about a challenge or bravery or courage." It's more of a
personal journey, she says.


Ahmad said her Guyanese family was "understandably a bit
terrified" by the journey, but she shrugged off any fears that
she and Stowe might go insane being confined to an enclosed space
together for so long.


"We haven't argued once, I don't know what people are talking
about."


The two have plenty to keep them busy in the way of books and
music and will also paint and practicing yoga.


NASA scientists have even shown interest in the voyage for the
lessons it could offer on the psychological effects of extended
periods of isolation.


"The people that go to Mars are going to have to sit in a
spaceship for 1,000 days and what are they going to have as
training and as an example?" asks Stowe.


After this trip, he says, he wants to build another boat capable
of staying at sea for seven years but with the idea that sailors
could come and go -- like the International Space Station.


But until then, the pair will be sailing around the Atlantic,
Indian and Pacific oceans.


Although the journey is not an official world record attempt,
they have a tracking unit that will constantly monitor their
progress and relay it to their website and verify that they have
stayed away from land.


The current official record stands at 657 days at sea, set by
Australian Jon Sanders.


They also have a satellite phone to be able to keep in touch with
friends and family and send emails and photographs.


The considerable logistics of the journey have required months of
planning.


The boat carries 4,500 liters (1,200 gallons) of fresh water --
enough to last them six months -- which will be topped up by
rainwater, while the deep hull carries one ton of coal and 100
boxes of wood for their stove.


Their diet will consist largely of rice, pasta and dried fruits
topped up with line-caught tuna, mackerel and mahi-mahi. Their
only fresh vegetables will be sprouts -- the benefits of which
Stowe explains with the zeal of a convert.


In all other ways they are self sufficient. Stowe says he'll be
able to jerry- rig the boat if anything structural breaks --
allowing them to continue almost no matter what. They will seek
land only in a life or death situation.


Ahmad says most of all she'll miss hot running water and laundry
machines.


Stowe says he won't miss anything -- not even a clean, dry
bathroom.


"Mostly at sea we go off the back of the boat," he says. "We have
a special steel railing that keeps you from falling in. It's
really the most beautiful toilet in the world.


"I laugh when I think of these multi-millionaires who have to
look in white toilet bowls all their lives while I'm looking into
this beautiful crystal blue ocean."

