

Mourning for victims of the deadliest US school massacre will
center on the national capital Sunday, when an elaborate memorial
service is held at the National Cathedral.


The service due to be attended by hundreds of people will cap
scores of private and public services held throughout the
country.


On Saturday, about 700 students, faculty and residents gathered
at the Blacksburg Baptist Church across from the main entrance of
Virginia Tech, where mentally disturbed student Cho Seung-Hui
shot dead 32 people and then himself Monday.


The ceremony was held to eulogize and bury Austin Michelle Cloyd,
18, who was in her first year in international studies when she
was cut down in Cho's rampage.


There were few dry eyes in the congregation when a parade of
Cloyd's friends choked back their own tears to remember her as
"brilliant," "always smiling" and a "bright star."


"It still seems unbelievable ... We will never understand it,"
said Reginald Tuck, senior pastor at Blacksburg United Methodist
Church, of the tragedy that stunned this city in the foothills of
the Appalachian Mountains.


The wakes and memorials took place as families and friends of the
27 students and five teachers that the South Korea-born, US-
raised Cho killed learned of his family's public apology Friday
for his "unspeakable actions."


"On behalf of our family, we are so deeply sorry for the
devastation my brother has caused. No words can express our
sadness that 32 innocent people lost their lives this week in
such a terrible, senseless tragedy. We are heartbroken," read the
statement released by Cho's sister Cho Sun-Kyung.


"We have always been a close, peaceful and loving family. My
brother was quiet and reserved, yet struggled to fit in. We never
could have envisioned that he was capable of so much violence.


"He has made the world weep. We are living a nightmare," the
statement said.


Police continued to probe Monday's shootings by Cho, a 23-year-
old Virginia Tech student who was armed with two handguns he had
bought despite being officially judged mentally ill two years ago
and ordered to seek counseling.


Media reports said Saturday that should have prevented him from
obtaining the guns, even under Virginia's lenient state firearms
purchase rules.


According to The New York Times, federal law should have
prevented the sale of the guns to Cho, one from a local gun
dealer and another over the Internet via a local pawnshop,
because two years ago a judge ruled that the moody loner
presented "an imminent danger to himself as a result of mental
illness."


ABC News reported that besides looking into the gun purchase,
police were also reported combing through his phone records to
see if he had any connection to any of the victims and whether he
had told anyone ahead of time of his rampage, which he had
planned for at least several weeks, according to his own written
and videotaped statements recovered after the crime.


"We can never fully understand what would cause a student to take
the lives of 32 innocent people," US President George W. Bush
said in his Saturday radio address, announcing that he had
ordered a review of the questions raised by the shooting.


"What we do know is that this was a deeply troubled young man --
and there were many warning signs," he said, announcing he had
ordered top officials from the departments of education, justice
and health to conduct a "review of the broader questions raised
by this tragedy."

