

Kim Tae-Ok choked with tears and could not finish her sentence as
she and others urged North Korean leader Kim Jong-Il to return
South Koreans kidnapped during the Cold War era.


"All that I want is a chance to see my son before I die," said
the 76-year-old mother of Lee Min-Gyo, who disappeared 30 years
earlier from the southern island of Hongdo.


"When your kids are late in returning home from class, you get
worried. But my son has not come back home for 30 years," she
told journalists last week as she pointed to a picture of her son
in his school uniform.


About 10 years after her son vanished, she was shocked to hear
from South Korean authorities that Lee had been kidnapped by a
North Korean agent to help train spies being sent to the South.


She was allowed to meet with a captured North Korean spy, who
identified Lee from a photograph as the man who had taught him
about South Korean language and culture.


Lee was one of five South Korean schoolboys Seoul says were
abducted by North Korean agents in 1977 and 1978 and taken to the
North for the same purpose.


Choi Sung-Yong, a leading campaigner for the families of
abductees, said Lee and the four others were all alive and living
comfortably in the suburbs of Pyongyang as government retirees.


"For North Korea, this is the most embarrassing episode
concerning kidnapped people, because all five were teenagers when
they were abducted. But Pyongyang must come forward and settle
this humanitarian issue," Choi said.


Lee's mother and relatives of at least two of the four kidnapped
teenagers appealed to Pyongyang through Red Cross authorities to
find their lost children and allow them to be reunited.


Each received a copy of a single-page document faxed from the
North Korean Red Cross to their South Korean counterparts,
carrying one sentence: "Unable to locate."


"North Korea has admitted to the kidnapping of Japanese, but it
has never admitted to having abducted South Koreans. Chairman Kim
Jong-Il just looks down on South Koreans and ignores their
appeals," Choi said.


Seoul says 485 of its citizens, most of them fishermen, have been
kidnapped since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, along with
more than 500 prisoners of war who were not sent home.


The communist North denies holding South Koreans against their
will, even though 38 prisoners of war and at least five kidnapped
fishermen have escaped and returned home.


Choi Uk-Il, 67, is one of the five fishermen. He said he was
captured with 32 colleagues by a North Korean patrol boat as they
were fishing off the eastern coast in August 1975.


"Even fish come and go freely between the South and the North,
why can't we?" said Choi, who spent 31 years in North Korea as a
worker on a collective farm before he fled to the South in
January.


Choi Sung-Yong, whose father was kidnapped to the North while
fishing near North Korean waters 40 years ago, said he and other
victims' relatives were disappointed by the outcome of the inter-
Korean Red Cross talks this month.


The two sides agreed to expand a reunion programme for families
separated for half a century, but reached no agreement on the
hundreds of people Seoul says were abducted by the North.


At one point the North threatened to walk out if the South
continued using the term "POWs and abductees." The North refers
to "those unaccounted for during or after the war."


The South had been pushing for a separate reunion programme for
the abductees and prisoners of war. But the North insisted those
unaccounted for could be included in existing reunion programmes.


"The South must be more aggressive in pressing the North on this
issue. It must use rice and fertilizer aid as a leverage," Choi
Sung-Yong said.


South Korea has agreed to provide 400,000 tons of rice to North
Korea starting in late May but only on condition the North starts
moving toward shutting down a reactor that produces plutonium for
nuclear weapons.

