

British detectives are set to issue arrest warrants for three
Russians they suspect killed former Russian agent Alexander
Litvinenko, The Mail on Sunday newspaper said.


Police have told sources close to Litvinenko's widow Marina that
they intend to charge the trio with murder and poisoning, the
weekly said on its front page.


Andrei Lugovoi, Dmitry Kovtun and Vyacheslav Sokolenko, all
wealthy businessmen and ex-agents in the former Soviet KGB spying
service, met Litvinenko three weeks before his agonising death
from radiation poisoning in London last year. They deny any
wrongdoing.


The tabloid said the issuing of warrants in the coming weeks
would damage already strained relations between Britain and
Russia, which would almost certainly block any request for their
arrest and extradition.


Britain has refused to heed Moscow's demands for the extradition
of oligarch Boris Berezovsky, an outspoken critic of Russian
President Vladimir Putin.


Relations between Britain and Russia could deteriorate unless
officials in London act against the exiled businessman, Russia's
ambassador to Britain said in comments reported Thursday.


Amid the surge in tension between Moscow and Britain, top Russian
businessmen and officials have cancelled their attendance at the
Russian Economic Forum in London, which starts Monday.


The forum usually attracts major power-brokers who give
presentations on Russian business to potential investors.


The Crown Prosecution Service, which oversees criminal
prosecutions in England and Wales, told The Mail on Sunday that
no decisions had been taken about charges in the Litvinenko case.


Litvinenko -- another outspoken critic of Putin's government and
whose associates blame the Kremlin for his death -- died in
hospital on November 23, about three weeks after first falling
ill.


The 43-year-old was found to have large doses of the highly
radioactive isotope polonium 210 in his body.


On November 1, Litvinenko drank tea with Lugovoi and Kovtun, at
the Millennium Hotel in central London.


He first complained of feeling unwell later that day after
meeting an Italian contact in a nearby sushi restaurant.


Sokolenko also met Litvinenko briefly at the hotel, where
investigators have found traces of polonium and a number of staff
tested positive for low level radiation contamination.


In December, nine British detectives flew to Moscow. They were
not allowed to interview Lugovoi or Kovtun directly, but they
were present when Russian police officers questioned them.


They were not granted access to Sokolenko.

