

Heavy shelling rocked the Somali capital on Sunday as fighting
between Ethiopian forces and Islamist insurgents entered its
fifth day.


Rival forces exchanged heavy artillery after a night of sporadic
battles, demolishing buildings in northern and southern
Mogadishu, residents said, although the latest casuality figure
remained unclear.


"We can see Ethiopian tanks firing artillery and mortar shells
towards civilian areas. They are firing indiscriminately and the
mortars are landing everywhere," said Abdulkarim Ali, a resident
of southern Mogadishu's Gupta area.


The battles, which flared up Wednesday have claimed the lives of
at least 168 civilians and wounded hundreds others, according
Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation, a local group that
tracks casualty figures.


But residents said the toll could be much higher as many
battlefields are still inaccessible.


"The fighting is going on heavily in this area. Both sides are
using machine guns and anti-aircraft guns and many people are
trapped in their houses," said Mukhtar Mohamed, a resident of
Fagar in northern Mogadishu.


"May Allah save us because He is the only one who knows when this
fighting will end," he added.


Four days of fighting earlier this month killed at least 1,000
lives in clashes that were described as the worst bloodletting in
the country since after the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad
Barre.


The United Nations says at least 321,000 people have fled
Mogadishu since February. Many are camped under trees and
makeshift hovels in the city's outskirts, without supplies.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed transitional
government to oust Islamists from Mogadishu in January. But since
then fighting has steadily grown worse as Islamist insurgents and
clan warlords have vowed to wage a guerrilla war to oust the
Ethiopians.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since Barre's ouster
touched off a deadly power struggle that exploded into inter-clan
warfare, defying more than 14 attempts to restore stability.

