

India's rupee is showing new muscle as it scales nine-year highs
against the dollar, alarming exporters who sell most of their
goods to the United States.


India's Federation of Indian Export Organisations says the
appreciation of the rupee has "severely eroded the profitability
of exporters."


The partially convertible rupee has risen by around 11 percent
against the dollar since last July, helped by inflows from
investors eager to invest in India's booming economy.


"Its appreciation reflects the underlying strength of the Indian
economy and, of course, (broad-based) dollar weakness," said
Deepak Lalwani, director at London- based Astaire Securities.


But until lately, dealers say, the central bank had been
intervening by selling rupees to make sure the Indian currency
does not rise too quickly, and to keep a lid on export prices.


Now though, market players say, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
has eased off from intervention as it seeks to wrestle down
inflation in Asia's fourth-largest economy, which is growing by
around nine percent.


"The bank has its eye firmly on (capping) inflation," said D.K.
Joshi, principal economist at Indian credit rating agency Crisil.


Letting the rupee rise has made imports less expensive,
cushioning the impact of strong fuel prices for India, which
relies heavily on imported oil which is priced in dollars.


By not selling rupees to buy dollars, the bank also has not added
to rampant money supply growth which has been helping fuelling
inflation.


After dipping briefly this month, Indian inflation crossed six
percent again last Friday to hit 6.09 percent, despite a slew of
monetary tightening measures.


Inflation now is more than half a point above the central Reserve
Bank's ceiling of 5.5 percent.


Economists expect the rupee's firmness to continue at least as
long as inflation remains above target.


"We expect the rupee to benefit from both rising interest rates
and the shift in policy focus of the RBI solely toward inflation
control," said Goldman Sachs in a research note.


The rupee's strength is a novel experience for Indians more
accustomed to a currency that a few years ago only seemed to lose
ground.


"Until about three or four years ago, on average you would factor
in about a five percent annual deprecation," noted Lalwani.


The rupee finished the day on Friday at 41.99 to the dollar. It
has notched up most of its gains since the beginning of March,
when figures indicate the Reserve Bank was intervening less in
the market.


In 2002, a dollar bought over 49 rupees. Now some economists are
eyeing a 12-month target of around 41 rupees to the dollar.


The rupee has been gathering strength as the world started
talking about India as an emerging economic powerhouse.


Now India is sitting on more than 200 billion dollars in foreign
reserves.


The sum is a far cry from 16 years ago, when reserves were down
to just 975 million dollars, and India had to pledge part of its
gold reserves as collateral and promise to free up its economy to
access funds from world lending bodies to avoid default.


Foreign direct investment nearly tripled in the past financial
year to 16 billion dollars from 5.5 billion a year earlier, and
that isn't counting the billions of dollars which flowed into the
share market.


But the rupee's rise is hurting exporters.


"We will have a discussion with the exporters to find a way out
of it," said Commerce Minister Kamal Nath last week, warning that
the stronger currency could have "a serious impact" on the
country's balance of payments.


Despite the stronger currency, the government forecast a 28
percent rise in merchandise exports to 160 billion dollars in the
financial year that ends next March, and said the target would
have been higher if the rupee had been weaker.


The red-hot outsourcing business, which earns most of its profits
in US dollars, has especially been feeling the pinch after
getting used to fat earnings margins. The sector now is having to
look at new ways to be competitive to offset the rupee's gains.


While the four top IT service providers, whose annual turnover
crossed the 10-billion mark in the 2007 financial year, have been
upbeat about prospects, analysts say rupee gains could reduce
margins by about 150 basis points.


The currency's outlook is "a major factor in the forward growth
of these companies," said Harit Shah, analyst at Mumbai's Angel
Broking.

