

A new drug, tested on mice and now being cautiously trialled on
humans, shows promise for treating a form of muscular dystrophy
and other inherited diseases, a study said on Sunday.


The prototype takes a revolutionary approach at tackling these
rare but often crippling disorders by sidestepping genetic flaws
that hamper production of a vital protein.


It has been successfully used on lab mice to restore dystrophin,
a protein which maintains muscle fibres and is the key player in
a tragic wasting disease called Duchenne muscular dystrophy
(DMD), the paper said.


Mice genetically engineered to have flawed DNA resulting in DMD
had their muscle function restored within just two to eight weeks
of being given the drug, it said.


Backed by fast-track authorisation from the US drug watchdog, the
researchers are now testing the drug, PTC124, on a small group of
DMD patients and on others with cystic fibrosis.


DMD is one of nine forms of muscular dystrophy, a disease in
which voluntary muscles become catastrophically weak.


A big subset of DMD cases is caused by so-called nonsense
mutations.


These are flaws in DNA that are handed onto RNA, a molecule that
is copied from DNA to provide the chemical code for making
proteins.


After being duplicated from DNA, RNA goes to a cellular machine
called a ribosome, which reads its code as a precursor for making
the protein.


But RNA with nonsense mutations sends a premature "stop" message
to the ribosome, resulting in a protein that is truncated. As a
result, in the case of DMD patients with nonsense mutations, the
muscles fail to get dystrophin to replenish themselves.


PTC124 bypasses these erroneous "stop" signals, enabling the
ribosome to crank out a full and functional protein.


The researchers are led by Stuart Peltz, head of a New Jersey
biopharmaceutical company called PTC Therapeutics, Inc. Their
paper was published online on Sunday by Nature, the British
science journal.


The team screened 800,000 compounds in a quest for a drug to
bypass the coding defect, PTC Therapeutics said in a press
release.


PTC124 is an oral drug that can be taken simply, the company
said. In addition, it does not have the potential hazards of
experimental gene-changing drugs or the burden of enzyme-
replacement therapy, which is taken periodically as an
intravenous or muscular injection.


Around 1,800 inherited disorders have already been identified
where nonsense mutations account for a large percentage of cases,
although the genes that they affect are different, PTC
Therapeutics said.


In the case of DMD, around 13 percent of cases are linked to
these mutations, while in cystic fibrosis, it is as high as 70
percent.


PTC124 is now in the second of a three-phase process of testing
new drugs on humans for safety and effectiveness.


Under Phase I, the drug is given to healthy volunteers, to see if
there are no bad side-effects.


Phase II entails giving the drug in small doses and for short
durations to a group of patients with the disease. If this works,
the trial then scales up significantly, to a far wider group and
with higher doses and for longer durations.


Two trials are underway among cystic fibrosis patients -- one in
the United States, the other in Israel -- while the DMD trial
involves 26 patients with DMD, to which another 12 are now being
added after early results were satisfactory.


A decision on whether to go to wider trials will be made later
this year, PTC Therapeutics spokesman Jane Baj told AFP.


Haemophilia, spinal muscular atrophy, neurofibromatosis,
retinitis pigmentosa are among other inherited diseases where
nonsense mutations account for a significant number of cases.


DMD typically strikes in early childhood and patients rarely live
beyond 30, killed mainly by loss of heart and lung function.


It primarily affects boys, who inherit the flaws from their
mother. Around one in every 3,000-5,000 males has the disorder,
according to various figures.

