

Gone are the days when Japan's annual shareholder meetings were
over in less than half an hour and gangsters were sometimes paid
to ensure disgruntled investors asked no awkward questions.


As Japan's population ages and tries to build bigger retirement
nest eggs, Japanese companies are coming under growing pressure
from shareholders, encouraged by increasingly vocal investment
funds.


In February, an activist fund led a rare shareholder revolt that
blocked a takeover of steelmaker Tokyo Kohtetsu by a subsidiary
of Nippon Steel.


Ichigo Asset Management, run by former Morgan Stanley banker
Scott Callon, successfully rallied opposition to the proposed
deal, arguing that it was not in shareholders' best interests.


"There are around 40 million individual shareholders in Japan. It
is very substantial," Callon told reporters recently.


Tokyo Kohtetsu investors "stood up and they said 'no'," he said.


"The calls were overwhelmingly from senior citizens," he added,
suggesting that Japan's rock-bottom interest rates had encouraged
Japanese investors to favour companies that reward shareholders.


As more and more Japanese invested their savings in the stock
market, increasingly assertive shareholders were expected to keep
up the pressure on managers to ensure fair dividends and good
governance, analysts said.


"Japanese companies are becoming more sensitive to shareholder
issues, or thinking of their company from the shareholder
perspective," said Sherman Abe, professor of international
business at Hitotsubashi University.


"I think Japanese companies realise that it's a different game
than it used to be 15 years ago," he said.


"I hope that Japanese shareholders are going to begin putting
more pressure on management," Abe said, noting that some firms
were already placing more emphasis on shareholder value by
setting return on equity targets.


Like hostile takeovers, shareholder revolts are unusual in Japan,
where companies have traditionally tended to put the interests of
employees and corporate partners before those of small investors.


In the 19th century, the powerful industrial families, busy with
their social functions, delegated the running of their businesses
to clerks, or "banto", who often put the welfare of the employees
before those of the owners.


This phenomenon continued into the 20th century -- particularly
at the big family-controlled banking and industrial
conglomerates, or "zaibatsu" -- and even after World War II,
despite the allied occupiers' efforts to break them up.


"There was a post-war creation of cross-shareholdings in which
institutional shareholders were extremely passive, frequently not
very focused upon returns," said Callon.


Even now rebel shareholders do not always win the day -- US hedge
fund Steel Partners last month failed in its attempt to rally
opposition among fellow shareholders to Sapporo Holdings'
proposed anti-takeover defences.


But today's typical annual shareholder meeting is a far cry from
the old days.


According to a study by American academic Kenneth Szymkowiak,
91.4 percent of annual general shareholder meetings in Japan
between 1971 and 1981 lasted for less than 30 minutes, and most
of them for no more than 15.


Sometimes proceedings were overshadowed by "sokaiya" -- corporate
extortionists with links to the local mafia.


These racketeers would threaten to disrupt the shareholder
meetings unless they were paid off by management to ensure
genuinely disgruntled shareholders refrained from giving
management a tough time.


Even now Japanese managers still enjoy more freedom that their US
counterparts when it comes to shareholder power, said Callon.


"Is Ichigo trying to change Japanese governance to make it like
America? The answer is 'no'. Japan has a deep and successful
culture that we think should be acknowledged, respected and
worked with as opposed to fought," he said.

