

Nick Watney fired a four-under-par 68 here Saturday to seize the
third-round lead in the 6.1 million-dollar Zurich Classic as
overnight leader Mark Calcavecchia faltered.


Watney, hoping to give himself an early present in advance of his
26th birthday next Thursday, held a two-shot lead after 54 holes
on 12-under 204.


His nearest rival is another player in search of a first PGA Tour
victory, Ken Duke, who carded a 66 for 206.


Calcavecchia, the 1989 British Open champion whose 13 US tour
titles include the Pods Championship in March, started the day
with a one-stroke lead.


He shot even par to fall into a third-place tie with Scott
Gutschewski (67) on 201.


The fact that Calcavecchia has come back to the field is not a
huge surprise.


He has had the lead after 36 holes 15 times in his career and has
gone on to win four times.


The last time a second-round leader went on to win this event was
in 2000, when Paraguay's Carlos Franco beat Blaine McCallister on
the second playoff hole.


Watney, who shot a bogey-free 67 on Friday, played without a
bogey on Saturday until the 17th. He made his move with four
birdies in seven holes from the 10th to take the lead.


Watney's best finish this season is a tie for ninth at the Buick
Invitational. His best career finish is a fifth-place tie last
season at both the Reno-Tahoe Open and the FUNAI Classic.


The 38-year-old Duke, whose best PGA finish is a ninth-place tie,
carded four of his six birdies on the back nine.


Calcavecchia made his first miscue of the tournament at the par-
four fourth, where he took a double-bogey.


He birdied the eighth, but closed his front nine with a bogey.


The 46-year-old regrouped on the back nine, signing for two
birdies against one bogey, but left himself a lot of work.


Opening-round leader Kyle Reifers (71) was in fifth place,
another stroke back on 205.


After being moved last year due to the devastation caused by
Hurricane Katrina, the event is back at the TPC Louisiana, a
course that plays 7,341 yards.


Nearly 2,000 trees were lost due to the storm and a number of
holes were completely under water.

