

Organisers fear the giant London concert to mark the 10th
anniversary of Diana, Princess of Wales's death will be usurped
by the Live Earth gig a week later, a newspaper said Sunday.


News of the World reported that her sons Princes William and
Harry were "desperately trying to rescue" the July 1 concert they
are heading up at the new, 90,000-seater Wembley Stadium, fearing
it will be blown out the water.


The Live Earth gig at Wembley on July 7 -- one of at least seven
such mammoth concerts across the globe aimed at highlighting
climate change issues -- will feature Madonna, the Red Hot Chili
Peppers, Genesis, Duran Duran, the Foo Fighters, the Black Eyed
Peas and Bloc Party among others.


News of the World said alarm bells rang for the princes when the
memorial concert organisers were forced to sign up 1980s
Australian pop heart-throb Jason Donovan and American 1970s
entertainer Donny Osmond.


"There is no doubt the Diana concert needs further big names," an
insider told Britain's biggest-selling newspaper.


"There is very little appeal to young people. With the exception
of Elton, the acts aren't nearly as strong as Live Earth.


"Live Earth knocks it for six with virtually every cutting-edge,
big-selling band in the world."


At the charity "Concert for Diana" on what would have been her
46th birthday, Sir Elton John, who performed at her funeral, will
play, as will her favourite band Duran Duran.


British singers Bryan Ferry and Joss Stone and US rapper Pharrell
Williams will appear, while composer Andrew Lloyd Webber will
stage a medley of songs from his musicals and the English
National Ballet will perform.


Lloyd Webber is trying to recruit a big US star, News of the
World said.


"The princes want the concert to be as much about modern-day
trends as Diana's favourite songs and performers," the tabloid
quoted him as saying.


"I have pledged to make sure that vision is achieved."


Diana married Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, in 1981 and
was a hugely popular member of Britain's royal family. The couple
separated in 1992 and divorced in 1996.


Diana was killed in a Paris car crash in August 1997 along with
her boyfriend Dodi Fayed and his chauffeur Henri Paul.

