

India will launch an Italian satellite via a home-built rocket
this week, seeking entry into an exclusive club of nations that
have put their space programmes to commercial use.


The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) will on Monday carry
the Agile astronomical satellite from the Sriharikota spaceport,
80 kilometres (50 miles) north of Chennai in south India, space
agency officials said here.


India wants to join and compete with the United States, Russia,
China, the Ukraine and the European Space Agency in offering
commercial satellite launch services, a market worth up to 2.5
billion dollars a year.


Monday's launch of the 352-kilogram (774-pound) Agile satellite
will be a key test of the country's commercial launch
capabilities.


"Success is very important in a mission like this because that's
what customers look for," said K.R. Sridhara Murthi, executive
director of Antrix Corp., the marketing arm of India's space
programme.


"For us, it could be a stepping stone towards expanding the
commercial dimension of the Indian space programme," said Murthi,
57, who is overseeing India's efforts to win space business
overseas.


India started its space programme in 1963, and has since
developed and put its own satellites into space. It has also
designed and built launch rockets to reduce its dependence on
overseas space agencies.


It carried out the first successful launch of a domestic
satellite, which weighed 35 kg, by a home-built rocket in 1980.


In those days, reaping commercial benefits from the programme was
far from the minds of Indian policymakers and scientists, who
were preoccupied with harnessing space technology to boost
deficient communications and broadcasting facilities.


Satellites were designed to map natural resources and predict the
weather to help farmers and the teeming masses of rural poor.


"We haven't reached the end of the road on those objectives yet,"
said Murthi, a mechanical engineer with an MBA from the Indian
Institute of Management in Ahmedabad.


The vast majority of India's 650,000 villages, home to two-thirds
of the country's 1.1 billion people, are still not a part of the
communications network, and natural disasters such as drought and
cyclones continue to take a heavy toll of life and property.


Murthi said India could not afford to make commerce the primary
objective of its space programme until the country's development
goals were met, and could only offer "spareable capacity" to
potential customers.


Nonetheless, India wanted to be recognised as a "serious player"
in space commerce, aiming for a 20 percent share of the satellite
launch market, with plans to carry out two or three missions a
year, he said.


Antrix also plans to offer overseas customers a package deal
under which local engineers would design and fabricate satellites
for launch by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO),
which runs India's space programme.


"We call that on-orbit delivery," said Murthi, who was previously
at Bangalore- based ISRO, where he took part in satellite
programme planning and technology transfers to companies.


For Monday's launch of the Italian satellite, ISRO is charging 11
million dollars, the Press Trust of India has reported. Space
agency officials have confirmed the fee is close to that figure.


The PSLV that will carry the Italian payload into space has
carried out nine successful launches since 1994 -- including
eight remote-sensing and one amateur radio satellite -- and is
known as the workhorse of the Indian space programme.


Capable of placing 1,500-kg satellites into orbit, the rocket has
been modified to launch the much smaller Agile, together with
which it will carry a space module to test avionic systems like
mission computers and navigation systems.


"The launch should prove the reliability and versatility of the
vehicle," said S. Krishnamurthy, spokesman for ISRO. "We expect
our launch capability to attract more interest" from potential
customers, he added.

