

Exporters in the 13 nations sharing the euro could take a hit
from the currency's soaring strength, but the bloc's currently
strong economic growth will stay firmly on track, officials and
economists said.


Far from being a burden on the 13-nation eurozone economy,
Belgian Finance Minister Didier Reynders said the euro's strength
was also a sign of confidence in its growth prospects.


"If you have a strong currency it reflects a strong economy," he
said Saturday at a meeting of EU finance chiefs and central
bankers in Berlin. "A strong euro and a strong economy, that's
the best scenario."


The euro rose on Friday to its highest point against the dollar
since December 2004 and neared its all-time record against the US
currency of 1.3666 dollars.


Meanwhile, the euro has hovered near an all-time high against the
Japanese currency of 162.43 yen, which was hit last Monday.


The last time the euro reached such levels against other major
currencies in late 2004 and early 2005, its strength helped
derail a nascent economic recovery in Europe by sapping foreign
demand for eurozone exports.


However, this time eurozone growth is on a more solid footing
thanks in large part to growing domestic demand, which many
economists expect should be able to make up for any lost foreign
demand.


"While there is no doubt the deterioration in the price
competitiveness will hurt sentiment in the exporting sector,
there is, nevertheless, still no reason for excessive pessimism,"
said economist Marco Kramer at Italian bank Unicredit.


"A continuing euro appreciation would certainly be an issue for
the eurozone economy, but quite fortunately it seems that the
eurozone economy has become less dependent on exports lately,"
said Bank of America economist Gilles Moec.


Dutch Finance Minister Wouter Bos said at the Berlin meeting that
the euro had risen so gradually to its current highs that "it
hasn't really shocked anybody" and businesses have been able to
adapt.


"I haven't had anybody knocking at my door complaining about the
euro rate," he told journalists.


Despite the euro's strength, many European companies reported
that it had not had a drastic impact on their bottom line in the
first quarter.


Europe's biggest carmaker, Volkswagen, said on Wednesday that net
profits more than doubled in the first three months of the year
despite growing pressure from Japanese rivals benefitting from a
weak yen.


"The weakness of the Japanese yen versus the euro has now reached
a level where it represents a massive competitive advantage for
our Japanese competitors," Volkswagen finance director Hans
Dieter Poetsch said last week.


Lehman Brothers economist Michael Hume said that wage growth and
inflation had been more subdued in the eurozone than in the
United States, helping its exporters remain competitive despite
the euro's strength.


"The evolution of price and cost differences may help to contain
the negative effect of exchange rate developments on
competitiveness a little," he said.


However, while the euro's current strength is not currently a
source of major concern for business leaders and politicians, it
could be if its upward march accelerates, said Unicredit's
Kramer.


"A rapid test of the 1.40-dollar mark would result in verbal
interventions from politicians, industry associations and
ultimately also the ECB," he predicted.

