

Sri Lankan sports stars are rallying behind the national team
competing for the cricket World Cup in the West Indies with a
mass gathering set for Monday.


Former top players Aravinda de Silva and Hashan Tillekeratne,
along with a host of other cricketers, are to take part in the
ceremony to wish Sri Lanka good luck in their semi-final clash
with New Zealand the following day.


"We will gather to wish our cricketers well", Tillekeratne told
AFP.


Skipper Mahela Jayawardene, Sanath Jayasuriya and Kumar
Sangakkara are to join the ceremony at the Nondescript Cricket
Club ground here via a telephone link just hours before they take
on the Kiwis, Tillekeratne said.


"It is a show of encouragement and support," Tillekeratne said,
adding that leading figures from other sports such as rugby,
tennis, swimming and athletics were also expected.


The Sri Lankans play New Zealand in the first World Cup semi-
final on Tuesday in Jamaica in their quest to repeat their 1996
tournament victory.


The veteran cricket broadcaster Premasara Epasinghe said New
Zealand would be demoralised after a crushing defeat at the hands
of Australians.


Epasinghe said the emphatic Australian win over the Kiwis had
once again underlined their superior mental and physical fitness,
which the Sri Lankans need to be aware of and must match, should
they meet in the final.


Ranjan Paranavithana, a well-known cricket writer and coach, said
that New Zealand's defeat without their main bowling weapon Shane
Bond might not have been a true reflection of the Kiwis'
capabilities.


"Sri Lankans can be happy that New Zealand received a drubbing
from Australia, but the Kiwis will raise their game in the semi-
final".


Paranavithana said that Bond's pace and bounce were factors that
the Sri Lankan top order had to be aware of.


"He is fresh after skipping a tough match against the Aussies,"
he said. "Sabina Park pitch should assist Bond."


Hashan Tillekeratne, a former captain and a member of the
victorious 1996 team said the recent history of games between the
two sides would give Sri Lanka the edge.


Sri Lanka have won seven of the past nine games against the
Kiwis, including their highly accomplished performance in the
Grenada Super Eight game.


"Our bowling has the balance and the required penetration. We
should win if our batsmen play to their potential to put pressure
on New Zealand," Tillekeratne said.

