

Australian officials on Sunday ended their search for three men
missing from a ghost yacht found drifting off the northeast
coast, saying their fate might be a mystery forever.


Police began an extensive air and sea search on Thursday after a
catamaran was found drifting near the Great Barrier Reef, with
engines running and a table laid for a meal but no one aboard.


Officials said they were baffled by the fate of the crew but
Sunday called off the rescue search, admitting that the chances
of finding them alive had faded.


"Unless information comes in, in terms of sightings or something
like that, the search has been suspended," a police spokeswoman
said.


Authorities said they fear skipper Derek Batten, 56, Peter
Tunstead, 69, and his brother James Tunstead, 63, may have been
swept overboard during a sudden storm last Sunday.


The decision to suspend the search was based on expert medical
advice which suggested the men could not have survived this long
in the water, they said.


"It's certainly very unusual and it's obviously very tragic for
the families and for those involved," Detective Inspector Warren
Webber said. "It seems very unlikely we will be able to say
exactly just what has occurred."


Forensic experts who searched the "Kaz II" after it was towed
into Townsville on Saturday confirmed that it had a badly torn
sail but found nothing else to indicate what happened to the men.


The catamaran, which was not thought to be equipped with a life
raft, still had its dinghy attached when it was found.


One theory to explain the men's disappearance is that they were
attacked by pirates.


But Webber said just because the boat's rubber fenders were in
the water, it did not mean the crew were preparing for another
vessel to come alongside it.


"I know that some people have speculated that means another craft
has come alongside," he said.


"But I'm told it's not unusual for some small craft people not to
take the fenders in. It's not unknown for them to be left out."


Relatives of the sailors said they would continue to hope their
loved ones were alive.


"I'll do whatever it takes to find them," James Tunstead's son
Shane told the Sunday Mail.


Batten, who had reportedly only owned "Kaz II" for a week, had
intended to sail the vessel around the north coast of Australia
from Queensland to Western Australia.


Media in Australia have likened the puzzling case to the "Mary
Celeste", the ghost ship found drifting in the Atlantic in 1872
with no sign of the 10 passengers and crew, one of maritime
history's most enduring mysteries.

