

Strategists in Britain's Labour Party planned to give major
donors access to Prime Minister Tony Blair, a document published
Sunday showed in the latest twist in the "cash-for-honours" row.


The long-running "cash-for-honours" allegations have marred
Blair's final year in office and state prosecutors are currently
deciding whether to bring any charges following the police
investigation into the case.


The Sunday Telegraph newspaper published a 1997 memo from a
former head of Labour's high-value fund-raising programme, which
stressed the importance of using private meetings with Blair and
visits to his Number 10 Downing Street office to "flatter"
potential donors into committing cash.


Labour said that the document had been made public in 1998, when
it was dismissed as being "naively written."


But the full text was revealed Sunday, under the front-page
headline "Revealed: birth of Labour's plot to sell access to
Blair," as several newsapers said his chief of staff Jonathan
Powell was among five members of his inner circle who could face
charges.


Police investigating the allegations handed a file on Friday to
the Crown Prosecution Service.


The inquiry was launched a year ago amid claims that political
parties had illegally offered financial supporters seats in
parliament's unelected upper House of Lords.


Lord Michael Levy, Labour's chief fundraiser and Blair's Middle
East envoy, Ruth Turner, the Downing Street director of
government relations, and biotech tycoon and Labour backer Sir
Christopher Evans, remain on bail. All three deny any wrongdoing.


The memo was written by Amanda Delew and titled "Post-Election
Strategy for High-Value Donors."


Highlighting the need to raise millions of pounds (dollars,
euros) ahead of the next general election, which took place in
2001, it said the success of the fundraising programme depended
on firstly Levy, then secondly the support of Blair and Powell,
which was "critical."


"Major donors need to feel that they are at the heart of things.


"Jonathan offers an opportunity for them to meet someone at the
focus of all activity who will answer their questions whilst
providing a reason for them to visit Number 10.


"Major donors expect to be invited to Number 10, if this cannot
take place then income levels may be affected."


It said some donors were brought on board by being offered a role
in Labour's business strategy, "flattering their desire to offer
policy advice."


"Tony Blair needs to attend a small number of big events (to be
agreed) and must continue to have private meetings with some of
the more interesting donors where possible."


Labour said the document was dismissed in 1998 by their chief
spokesman, who said it was "naively written and was spiked before
it reached senior members of the party.


"No-one who gave money to the party is given preferential
treatment and no-one can buy access to Downing Street."


A Labour spokesman added Sunday: "Since then, and in the nine
years since the original story, absolutely nothing has changed."


Blair was interviewed twice as a witness in the "cash-for-
honours" probe, the first sitting prime minister to be questioned
as part of a criminal inquiry, as the police gradually closed in
on Downing Street.

