

The remote Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan said Sunday it was ready
to transform itself from an absolute monarchy to democracy, with
weekend mock polls hailed as a success.


"The first of the two-phased mock elections was a great success
and we are now ready to usher in democracy," Dasho Kunzang
Wangdi, Bhutan's chief election commissioner, told AFP by
telephone from the capital Thimphu.


Saturday's dummy elections were designed to familiarise residents
of the "Land of the Thunder Dragon", who have never had the
chance to vote before, with the workings of parliamentary
democracy.


The exercise is part of a plan by former king Jigme Singye
Wangchuck -- who handed his crown to his young Oxford-educated
son, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in December -- to change
with the times and assume a more ceremonial role.


An estimated 400,000 people were eligible to vote in the tiny
Buddhist nation, which is about the size of Switzerland and sits
sandwiched between India and China.


But turnout appeared low at about 30 percent, with just 124,747
votes cast in the 47 constituencies.


Voters were given a choice of four fictional parties -- the Blue,
Green, Red and Yellow Druk parties. The Druk, or Thunder Dragon,
is the national symbol.


Each party had a fictional platform: the Blue party stood for
industrial development, the Greens for environmental protection,
and the Red Druks for free and fair government.


But it was the Yellow Druk party, which stood for "ensuring unity
of the country through preservation of traditions, culture and
values" that appeared to be ahead in preliminary results, Wangdi
said.


The top two parties will go into a second round of dress
rehearsal polls on May 28.


Home to 600,000 people and known as a Shangri-la of stunning
beauty, Bhutan's transition to democracy began in 2001, when the
hugely popular former king handed over the powers of daily
government to a council of ministers.


A 34-point draft constitution unveiled in 2004 has also been sent
to the Bhutanese people for their views ahead of the 2008 polls.
The constitution will replace a 1953 royal decree giving the
monarch absolute power.

