

The combination of a two-round election system and a multiplicity
of parties and candidates means French elections often create a
surprise:


- In 1965 Charles de Gaulle, who had basically written the
electoral rules as the founder of the constitution, expected to
sail through in the first round, but only won after a second one.


The 1965 election was the first presidential held under universal
suffrage in France for over a century; up until then most heads
of state had been indirectly elected.


However Socialist Party leader Francois Mitterrand, who had
earlier refused to take part, decided to run against De Gaulle,
becoming the only leftist candidate.


As a small number of other rightists were also running, the
conservative vote was split, and Mitterrand scored a famous
victory simply by reaching the second round.


- The 1969 election, sparked by De Gaulle's resignation, was an
early example of a right-right choice in the second round. A
large number of leftist candidates faced off against only two
conservative ones; as a result the second round, won by Georges
Pompidou, saw over 31 percent of voters stay at home.


- In 1995 Jacques Chirac won a convincing victory against the
socialist Lionel Jospin despite the fact that Jospin gained more
votes than him in the first round. Chirac picked up votes from
supporters of a conservative rival, who had initially been
expected to win.


Two years later, Chirac threw away part of his advantage with an
ill-advised decision to dissolve parliament in the hopes of
winning a bigger majority. In the event the Socialists won
handily, forcing Chirac into five years of right- left
"cohabitation".


- In 2002, the far right leader Jean-Marie le Pen, whose score in
successive elections had been growing strongly, caused a massive
upset by making it through into the second round, beating Jospin.


As most leftwing voters were willing to do almost anything to
prevent Le Pen from winning, they had no choice but to vote for
Chirac, who sailed through with 84 percent of the vote.

