

Telecom Italia is once again up for grabs after the acrimonious
withdrawal of US giant AT&T from the bidding on fears of
Italian government intervention in the process.


AT&T is the third to abandon a bid to acquire tyre company
Pirelli's controlling stake in the Italian icon after Australian
billionaire Rupert Murdoch pulled out last summer and Spain's
Telefonica early this year.


Pirelli owns 80 percent of the Olimpia holding company, which has
the largest stake in Telecom Italia.


Even though that stake amounts to just 18 percent, Olimpia
nominates most of Telecom Italia's directors.


Pirelli boss Marco Tronchetti Provera wants to sell Olimpia to
shed a financial burden that has been a drag on the company since
2001.


But the financial demands for limiting losses -- Telecom Italia
stocks are worth half as much as in 2001 -- and quarrels with the
government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi have torpedoed takeover
bids.


The talks with AT&T, which gained wide news coverage in
Italy, sparked fierce opposition from small shareholders and set
alarm bells ringing in the Italian government.


AT&T wanted to join its Mexican subsidiary America Movil in
acquiring two- thirds of Olimpia for a total of 4.8 billion euros
(6.5 billion dollars) including the group's debt.


But it thought better of it, citing "possible regulatory
uncertainties."


"The letter of withdrawal of AT&T clearly expresses the fear
of investing in a market whose rules are unpredictable," US
Ambassador to Rome Ronald Spogli said in reaction.


The Italian opposition and US authorities accused the government
of interfering in the private sector.


But Prodi rejected the allegations, while admitting that he was
not indifferent to the plight of what he called a "strategic
company for the country."


Fueling controversy over the government's role was draft
legislation that would give the Italian telecoms regulatory
authority the power to determine access by other operators to
Telecom Italia's fixed-line network.


The rule change would authorise the regulator to require Telecom
Italia to hive off all or part of its fixed-line network in order
to assure equitable access for all.


The government has said it will not allow the regulator to
require the sale of part of this network, but some telecoms
experts advocate such a move.


Meanwhile, other potential bidders for Olimpia have joined the
fray, the most sensational being media magnate Silvio Berlusconi,
who said his private television group Mediaset was interested in
making an offer along with other Italian investors in order to
keep the operator in Italian hands.


But media anti-trust laws would stand in the way, since Mediaset
already operates the maximum number of TV stations allowed, and
Telecom Italia owns three channels.


Left-wing politicians are also likely to oppose the unprecedented
concentration of power in the hands of Berlusconi, the former
prime minister who is now opposition leader.


And AT&T could reconsider if the Italian government changes
its position, officials said.

