

Malaysia's deputy prime minister has for the first time denied
any involvement in the high-profile murder of a Mongolian model.


Najib Razak said he had never even met the 28-year-old Mongolian
woman whose gruesome killing sent shockwaves through Malaysia.


"It's got nothing to do with me at all," said Najib as he
campaigned late Saturday in Batang Berjuntai, near Ijok in
central Selangor state, ahead of a key by-election.


"I am not involved at all with Altantuya. Allah is my witness."


Najib was linked to the murder after political analyst Abdul
Razak Baginda, with whom he is connected, was charged with
abetting in the crime.


Altantuya Shaariibuu, 28, was murdered in October last year and
her body was blown up. Her remains were found in an isolated area
in November, and two officers from an elite police unit have been
charged with the killing.


Police have said the woman was kidnapped from outside the home of
Abdul Razak, who said in January he had an affair with her but
wanted her out of his life after she demanded money.


Anwar Ibrahim, former deputy premier and advisor to the
opposition People's Justice Party, has called for a probe into
the murder to determine whether Abdul Razak used government
connections to organise the crime.


"I myself have never met Altantuya, except seeing her picture in
newspapers. This is another person's problem," Najib, the deputy
president of the ruling dominant United Malays National
Organisation (UMNO), told supporters on Saturday.


His comments were the strongest yet in defending himself in the
murder case, since he broke months of silence on Wednesday over
the issue.


In the past he has declined to comment on the allegations to
avoid prejudicing the case, due to be tried on June 4.


Najib, whose role as UNMO deputy president means he is seen as
Malaysia's prime minister-in-waiting, said Wednesday he was ready
to face any allegations over his involvement in the crime, and
accused opposition politicians of trying to smear him.

