

Sunderland manager Roy Keane insisted his side are still on
course for promotion to the Premiership despite suffering their
first defeat in 18 league matches against Colchester.


Keane's side slumped to a 3-1 loss at Layer Road that could prove
costly in the race for promotion from the Championship.


The Black Cats remain top of the table but Birmingham can knock
them off with a victory at Wolverhampton on Sunday. With third-
placed Derby beating Luton 1-0 on Friday, the three-way battle
for automatic promotion is going down to the wire.


Wayne Brown had given Colchester a 45th minute lead when he
headed in Kevin Watson's free-kick. Dwight Yorke equalised 10
minutes after half-time with a header from Daryl Murphy's cross,
but Richard Garcia restored play-off chasing Colchester's lead
with a brilliant finish in the 82nd minute.


Jamie Cureton completed Sunderland's dismal day when he converted
a last minute penalty to leave the visitors just a point ahead of
Derby with two games to play.


"We're disappointed to lose but it's still in our hands and we'll
try and bounce back next week," Keane said.


"When we got back to 1-1 we thought we could get something from
the game but it wasn't to be. I have no problem with the effort
and desire we showed and you have to give credit to the
opposition."


Southampton remain firmly in the play-off race after a 1-0
victory over 10-man Leeds that pushed the visitors closer to
relegation.


Bradley Wright-Phillips, brother of Chelsea star Shaun, grabbed
the winner with just six minutes left at St Mary's after former
Botlon and Celtic star Alan Thompson was dismissed in the first-
half.


George Burley's side are just a point behind sixth-placed
Wolverhampton. But Leeds, who have never played outside the top
two divisions of English football, remain in the relegation zone.


Thompson's straight red card for a lunge on Jhon (eds: correct)
Viafara sparked a brief flare-up, with stewards keeping Leeds
players away from referee Tony Bates. Then Wright-Phillips added
to their misery by converting Djamel Belmabi's cross. The final
whistle saw further angry scenes as rival fans threw missiles.


Leeds boss Dennis Wise was furious with the officials and said:
"The linesman has made the decision but he was 40 yards away.
Alan Thompson has pulled Viafara away from Eddie Lewis because
they were going to clash, and the officials have misunderstood
the situation.


"I'm waiting to go and see them but they like to get their
stories straight so we have to wait and see. We will be
appealling against it, hopefully they'll change it but it won't
change the result."


Stoke wasted a golden opportunity to move into the top six as
relegation- threatened Hull earned a 1-1 draw with a last minute
goal.


But boss Tony Pullis is remaining positive and he said: "There is
still plenty to play for and I still think we will make the play-
offs if we win our last two games of the regular season."


Nils-Eric Johansson's last minute goal gave Leicester a 1-0 win
at Preston as Nigel Worthington got his first win as Foxes boss.
Preston remain fourth but have lost four of their last five
matches.


Worthington said: "We've been building up to that. It was a
battling performance with a never-say-die attitude, which is what
I like to look for in the team and players."


Southend stay in the drop zone, with Leeds and already relegated
Luton, after a 2-1 defeat at Plymouth.

