

A veteran opponent of Hong Kong's China-backed government warned
Sunday that promises of democracy in the former British colony
are likely to be watered down to suit Beijing.


Hong Kong's constitution, which came into effect when the city's
sovereignty reverted to China in 1997, requires reform of the
political system from one where leaders are selected by a panel
of Beijing loyalists to one where they are popularly elected.


Argument has raged for a decade over the timing of change, with
opposition pro- democrats calling for swift reforms and
government supporters taking a more cautious wait-and-see
approach.


Lawmaker Emily Lau said Sunday she feared political leader Donald
Tsang would not deliver on his promise to settle the issue in the
next five years.


"The mish-mash model that Mr Tsang is going to propose would most
probably not satisfy the principle of universal and equal
suffrage," she said in a radio address.


"The administration hopes that since Beijing and the tycoons
object to real democratic elections, the people may accept a
watered-down version of universal suffrage."


Hong Kong became a territory of China when Britain ceded control,
after 156 years of colonial rule, in 1997.


Under the "one country, two systems" arrangement hammered out
between Beijing and London, freewheeling Hong Kong exists within
the authoritarian Chinese state as a largely autonomous city,
with rights not enjoyed anywhere else in China.


Lau has been at the forefront of a campaign to speed up the
introduction of democracy to the wealthy southern Chinese
territory.


Her passionately-held convictions have brought her into conflict
with the government and supporters of China's authoritarian
regime. She blames Chinese spies for a series of arson attacks on
her offices in the past few years.


Tsang entrusted the formulation of a roadmap to democracy to a
government panel, which is to issue its proposals in a green
paper this summer.


Lau, however, says the panel has been given too many conditions,
the most restrictive of which is that any proposal must satisfy
Beijing.


"In order to satisfy the last condition, the political model must
ensure that only candidates acceptable to Beijing would be
nominated. After that, the people can elect the chief executive
by one person, one vote. However, this is not universal and equal
suffrage, since the people's right to be nominated as a candidate
is being denied," she said.


Lau urged Hong Kongers to vent their anger in a July 1 protest,
set to take place on the symbolic tenth anniversary of the
handover.

