

The investor that sends the euro up to its next record high may
not be a brash investment banker or hedge fund manager, but a
suburban housewife, grey-haired pensioner or off-duty sushi chef.


Japan's rock-bottom interest rates provide cheap credit but
little incentive for savers to stash cash in a bank account, so
more and more ordinary Japanese are turning to currency trading
to boost their savings.


One 59-year-old Tokyo housewife is in trouble with the Japanese
authorities for allegedly failing to declare 400 million yen (3.4
million dollars) in profits from foreign exchange margin trading
over three years.


This type of high-risk trading has become popular among Japanese
as it offers the chance to earn hefty profits, although they can
also be left with much bigger losses than the amount they
deposited.


"The market certainly has grown substantially," said James Gow,
chief executive of FX Online Japan, one firm which offers margin
trading.


"We have a great cross-section of investors ranging from a sushi
chef to a professional trader to a 20-year-old to our oldest
customer who's about 74 years old," he told AFP.


Japan's wave of post-war baby boomers are increasingly looking
overseas for better returns on their savings, which means
exchanging yen into euros, dollars or other high-yielding
currencies.


This has helped to drive the euro up to record highs against the
yen, while keeping the Japanese currency weak against the
greenback.


"The most important driver of the yen's weakness is the Japanese
household sector's capital outflow, which is regarded as stable
and very likely to continue," said Toru Umemoto, forex strategist
at Barclays Capital.


He estimates that carry trade by Japanese households amounts to
46 trillion yen, which could be far more than speculators' carry
trade.


"Carry trade has been increasing and is likely to increase
further. Japanese individual investors constantly export their
capital overseas. They are very unlikely to repatriate (these
funds) immediately," Umemoto said.


Other more adventurous investors are not using their savings but
taking advantage of Japan's low interest rates, which analysts
say have been encouraging a credit bubble as investors borrow
cheap yen to invest overseas.


Interest rates stand at 5.25 percent in the United States and
Britain, 3.75 percent in the eurozone and just 0.50 percent in
Japan, which is still struggling to decisively exit years of
deflation.


No one knows the exact magnitude of the yen carry trade, although
Tim Lee of the US research firm Pi Economics reckons that the
true size could be in excess of one trillion dollars --
equivalent to the annual national output of Canada.


But while investing overseas or forex day trading is becoming
more popular, it seems that the real power when it comes to
playing the market still lies with the big financial
institutions.


"The whole global foreign exchange market is something like three
billion dollars a day and the retail market is substantially less
than that, so certainly the guys in the dark suits at Goldman and
Morgan Stanley, they're still pushing the buttons," said Gow at
FX Online Japan.

