

Two car bombs devastated a Baghdad police station on Sunday,
killing 10 people and wounding scores, as the US military vowed
to separate the capital's warring factions with concrete walls.


In a mid-morning attack, two car bombs struck the Al-Bayaa police
station in the southwest of the city, the latest in a recent
spate of deadly attacks aimed at undermining a joint US-Iraq
security strategy.


Two of the 10 killed were policemen, security officials said,
while another 75 people were wounded, including 30 policemen.


Iraqi security forces are regular targets of insurgents and
Sunday's attack was the latest spectacular blast that insurgents
have managed to carry out despite the massive security crackdown
in the city.


More than 200 people have died this week in such bombings,
including 140 on Wednesday in the deadliest strike since the
March 2003 US-led invasion.


As bombers unleashed more carnage, the US military said it would
try to control the sectarian bloodshed by separating more of
Baghdad's districts with high concrete walls into separate
protected enclaves.


Officers said they would erect barricades between hot spots
despite one such experiment -- a five-kilometre (three-mile) wall
around a dangerous Sunni enclave --- coming under flak from angry
local residents.


Brigadier General John Campbell, a senior military commander in
Baghdad, said the walls were designed save civilian lives and
that the intent was not to divide the city along sectarian lines.


Since April 10, US paratroopers have been deploying at night to
erect a  wall made of six-tonne (14,000-pound) concrete sections
around Baghdad's notorious Sunni district of Adhamiyah.


The wall is designed to prevent Shiite death squads from
launching attacks to drive out the Sunnis from the district, and
to prevent Sunni insurgents from using the pocket as a base for
raids and bombing runs into Shiite areas.


But the structure has angered residents who accuse the military
of hardening the city's already bitter sectarian divisions.


On Saturday, several residents, including 54-year-old housewife
Um Haider, told AFP that they feared the wall would isolate them
from the city and harden ethnic divisions.


"Erecting concrete walls between neighbourhoods is not a solution
to the collapse in security and the rampant violence. If so,
Baghdadis would find themselves in a maze of high walls
overnight," Haider said.


But Campbell defended the creation of what the US military has
dubbed "gated communities" -- like the wealthy private estates in
the suburbs of American cities that are insulated from urban life
by gates and wire fences.


He pointed out that Baghdad's Green Zone was an example of such a
security tactic -- although the fortified district is often hit
by rocket attacks and on April 12, a suicide bomber penetrated it
and blew himself up in parliament.


Campbell said such barriers will be set up only in violent areas
of Baghdad, but did not name the districts.


"We've selected communities that have seen an increase in
violence, a heightened violence, and we're protecting some of
those communities with walls," he said.


Baghdad's security crackdown aided by a "surge" of 21,000 extra
US troops since February 14 has managed to curb sectarian
bloodshed to some extent, but has up till now failed to stop bomb
attacks.


Washington and the US military accuse some of Iraq's neighbours
such as Iran and Syria of helping armed groups in the country and
fuelling violence that has killed tens of thousands of people in
the last four years.


Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki left for Egypt and Kuwait on
Sunday to hold preparatory talks for a meeting next month of
Iraq's neighbours and world powers to resolve his country's
turmoil.


On May 3, world leaders will gather in Egypt's Red Sea resort of
Sharm el-Sheikh for two days of talks on ways to end the
bloodshed.


Sunni leaders from western Iraq condemned the killing of the
chairman of Fallujah city council, Sheikh Sami Naib al-Jumaili, a
critic of the Al-Qaeda militant group and the fourth holder of
the post to be assassinated.


"This murder was a crime against all of the citizens of Iraq,"
said Anbar Governor Ma'amun Sami Rashid Al-Alwani and Provincial
Council chairman Abdulsalam Abdullah in a joint statement.


According to Fallujah police, Sheikh Jumaili was gunned down
Saturday in front of his home in the Golan district in the north
of Fallujah.

