

Germans will have to dig deeper to indulge in their beloved beer
in the next few months as barley is increasingly displaced in the
country's fields by heavily subsidised crops used for biofuels.


"Many brewers have no choice but to raise their prices. They
decided not to pass on the three-percentage point rise in value-
added tax that came into force in Germany on January 1, but in
this case they have no alternative," said Kai Schuerholt, a
spokesman for the German brewers' association.


The German arm of Belgian brewer InBev, which owns the Beck's and
Franziskaner brands, confirmed it would be implementing "slight"
price rises, while Germany's Radeberger said it was considering a
similar move.


It is hard to overstate the importance of beer in Germany - it is
drunk in vast quantities and the market is fiercely competitive
and extremely price-sensitive.


A half-litre glass currently costs as little as three euros (four
dollars) in a bar or restaurant, a price to leave drinkers in
most other western European countries green with envy.


Average daily consumption of beer in Germany last year was 111.6
litres per head, equivalent to every one of the country's 82
million people drinking a 0.31-litre glass every day, according
to figures released on Friday.


But the price of barley, which is used to make malt, an essential
ingredient in brewing, has doubled in the space of a year from
200 to 400 euros per tonne on the German market.


Brewers and farmers say an extremely poor barley harvest in 2006
has exacerbated an emerging trend of converting barley fields to
growing the plants used in biofuels, such as rapeseed. The amount
of land used for growing barley in Germany is receding by five
percent a year.


The march of biofuels is inexorable. Of the 12 million hectares
farmed in Germany, two million are already being used for plants
which can be turned into biofuel.


"Biofuels are monopolising the land," said Manfred Weizbauer, the
head of the German millers' federation, which is calling for a
cut in the subisidies granted to biofuel crops.


"The German government has got to be reasonable and not give more
importance to energy security than to food security," he said.


The impact of the biofuels is not restricted to beer, with the
price of bread likely to rise by 10 percent as a result of
reduced grain production, the German bakers' federation has
warned.


Germany is not alone in experiencing the effects of converting
arable land to new uses and although it is not suffering the
potentially catastrophic consequences felt by Mexico, where the
phenomenon has caused maize prices to climb sharply, German
millers fear the effects of steadily rising cereal prices.


The biofuels policy is encouraged by the European Union, which
wants vehicle fuel to contain at least 10 percent of the 'green'
fuel by 2020.


But Jens Redemacher, the head of the cereals division of the
federation of German farmers, said the brewers also had
themselves to blame.


"They have demanded lower and lower prices for barley which has
caused farmers to abandon growing it because it was no longer
profitable. So biofuels are not the only culprits," he said.


The food industry is "just going to have to get used to having a
competitor for the purchase of cereals, especially those used for
biofuels," Redemacher said.

