

British bank Barclays on Monday was expected to bid about 69
billion euros (94 billion dollars) for Dutch peer ABN Amro,
British newspapers reported here Sunday.


But it may not be enough to win over the board of ABN Amro, which
was Monday expected to meet a banking consortium to discuss a
possible separate takeover offer, The Observer said.


The weekly said that the offer from Barclays would be worth 36
euros per ABN Amro share, below the 40 euros per share the
consortium could afford according to economists.


The Independent on Sunday said the Barclays bid would value ABN
Amro "at over 36 euros" per share.


On Friday, the share price in ABN Amro closed at 36.29 euros in
Amsterdam, giving the bank a market value totalling 69.30 billion
euros. In London Barclays closed at 750 pence, making it worth
49.05 billion pounds.


ABN Amro management has been under pressure from shareholder TCI,
a hedge fund, to discuss takeover terms with the other groups
interested in buying the lender.


The Dutch bank was Monday set to meet with the Royal Bank of
Scotland, Spain's Banco Santander and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis
regarding a possible separate offer.


It is thought that the three banks, which would be able to cut
more costs than Barclays, would divide up ABN assets between
them.


TCI, which had initially advocated a break up of the ABN Amro
group, had threatened to take legal action if ABN management did
not talk to potential buyers other than Barclays.


On March 20, Barclays and ABN Amro had outlined specific plans
for a merger, including that the combined group would have its
main stock market listing in London, with headquarters and a
secondary listing in Amsterdam.


Outside Britain, Barclays has interests in continental Europe,
Asia, the United States, the Middle East and Africa.


ABN Amro has also expanded into emerging markets in Asia and has
interests in Canada, Italy, Mexico and the United States. It has
4,500 branches in 53 countries.


A combined Barclays-ABN Amro enterprise would have 47 million
clients and employ 220,000 people in 50 countries.

