

The Canterbury Crusaders were true to form in extending their
Super 14 lead over the weekend, but the Blues, Bulls and Chiefs
ensured the rest of the play-off picture was still to be drawn.


Nine teams remain in contention with only two rounds left and
circling amid the top four are the enigmatic Coastal Sharks, who
crashed to the Waikato Chiefs a week after knocking the Blues off
the top of the ladder.


But it is the Blues and Bulls who hold the most intrigue ahead of
a crucial showdown next weekend in Pretoria.


The Blues set the pace in the competition for most of the year,
but after back- to-back losses to the Sharks and the Western
Stormers, a home semi-final no longer looks certain.


The Northern Bulls meanwhile have methodically moved through the
pack, and overtook the Chiefs to be fourth on points differential
when they clobbered the Golden Lions 31-7 in Johannesburg.


With two rounds to sort out the semi-finalists, the Crusaders
lead with 41 points, four clear of a packed bunch headed by the
Blues on 37.


The Sharks are third with 35 points, then the Bulls and Chiefs on
32 and the ACT Brumbies on 31.


But the Western Force, Otago Highlanders and Wellington
Hurricanes, filling the seventh to ninth places, all retain
mathematical chances of making the final four.


The Crusaders pencilled themselves in for yet another home semi-
final with a hard-fought 23-13 win over the Wellington
Hurricanes.


In a high-pressure, stop-start match, both sides were guilty of
poor handling and defensive lapses.


At halftime, the Hurricanes only trailed by four points but their
hopes of producing an upset diminished early in the second half
when powerhouse backrower Jerry Collins was stretchered off with
a neck injury.


Collins spent the night in hospital but was cleared to leave the
following day.


The Blues maintained a precarious second place but the chasing
pack moved closer as they went down to the Stormers 33-20.


Two of the three Stormers tries resulted from Blues mistakes --
either a misplaced pass or a dropped ball -- as they turned
around a 10-0 deficit to score 20 unanswered points in the
opening half hour to set up the win.


The Chiefs earned their 10th bonus point and only their fifth win
with a 35-27 victory, which prevented the Sharks completing a
grand slam against New Zealand teams this season.


It was still not the complete package by the Chiefs, who managed
to shore up defensive lapses of recent weeks in the first half,
before resorting to old bad habits and leaking four tries after
the break.


"We got 40 minutes of how we wanted to play the game but we still
haven't nailed the whole thing," said Chiefs captain Jono Gibbes.


When the Bulls stepped into the Lions' den it was, as expected, a
massively physical encounter, but it was the Bulls' backs who
made the difference, scoring all of their five tries.


While the Chiefs have a tough run remaining, away to the Waratahs
and Crusaders, the Bulls have favourable home games against the
Blues and Queensland Reds.


But skipper Victor Matfield is taking nothing for granted.


"We've got two games to go so it's going to be a big fight. We're
only ahead of the Waikato Chiefs on points difference," he said.


A last-minute penalty by Mark Gerrard saw the Brumbies snatch a
crucial 14-12 win from the Force to stay close to the leaders.


It was a one-try match that mixed high-class defence with poor
ball control, and the Brumbies will have to step up a level if
they are to keep their season alive when they face the Crusaders
next weekend.


The Otago Highlanders' 26-25 win over the New South Wales
Waratahs kept them on the edge of the semifinals but needing a
miracle run of upsets in other matches.


In the remaining match over the weekend, the out-of-contention
Reds posted their second win of the season and their first in 12
weeks, beating the Cheetahs 23-13.

