

The US military intends to proceed with its plan to erect
concrete walls around Baghdad hot spots, the military said, even
as one such experiment in a dangerous Sunni enclave faces
criticism.


Brigadier General John F. Campbell, a top military commander in
Baghdad, said these walls aimed to protect the people from
"terrorists" and the "intent is not to divide the city along
sectarian lines."


Since April 10, the US forces have been constructing a five-
kilometre (three- mile) wall made of six-tonne (14,000-pound)
concrete sections around Baghdad's notorious Sunni district of
Adhamiyah.


The wall is designed to prevent Shiite death squads from
launching attacks to drive out the Sunnis from the district, and
to prevent Sunni insurgents from using the pocket as a base for
raids and bombing runs into Shiite areas.


But the structure has angered residents who accuse the military
of hardening the city's already bitter sectarian divisions.


Campbell said several such "gated communities" would be formed
but they were temporary security tactic.


"The intent is to provide a more secured neighbourhood for people
who live in selected neighbourhoods," he said in a statement
issued by the military late Saturday.


"Some of the people who I have talked to have had favourable
comments about it, and they want us to build some of them
faster."


Campbell said such barriers were being erected even around
marketplaces -- regular targets of bombers -- and set up after
consultation with Iraqi forces and local leaders.


Such a decision is "based on the ground commander working with
Iraqi security forces and also working with the community in
those different neighbourhoods," Campbell said.


"We've selected communities that have seen an increase in
violence, a heightened violence, and we're protecting some of
those communities with walls," he said.


"Where they exist, we consult with the area district advisory
councils and neighbourhood advisory councils. We work in
conjunction with them. They represent the people of those
neighbourhoods."


Campbell said security forces would wait and see as to how this
tactic works.


"We'll learn from the ones we're putting in and we'll adjust, as
necessary," he said.


"We'll take feedback from the local communities. If we find that
they're not doing what they're intended to do, we'll certainly
move them. We'll add where we have to."

