

Rafa Benitez described Liverpool's build-up to Wednesday's
Champions League semi-final trip to Chelsea as almost perfect
after watching his side glide to a 2-0 win over Wigan.


The Liverpool manager was able to rest key players, bring others
back from injury and saw his team guarantee themselves a place in
next season's Champions League thanks to two goals from Dutch
international striker Dirk Kuyt.


Everything went according to plan for the Spanish manager and
Liverpool look to be peaking at exactly the right time as they
bid to repeat their 2005 win over Chelsea at the same stage of
Europe's premier competition.


"We were looking for a good game, a good result and we wanted to
rest some players and didn't want injuries," Benitez said. "So it
was almost perfect.


"It wasn't too hard a game but we had to keep going, keep moving,
keep passing the ball and be patient.


"When we scored the first and, especially, the second, we had
more space and could run between defenders to create chances. But
the best news was we had no injuries."


That fact leaves Benitez with a headache for the first leg visit
to Stamford Bridge as he wrestles with the decision over what his
starting line-up should be in the vital tie.


"It's always difficult," said Benitez. "With the squad and all
the players working hard my idea is to wait and see what happens
in training during the week in every training session. I don't
know the team myself yet.


"It's a problem but it's a nice problem to have. Some players
played well today but I need to wait for these next training
sessions. It is better to wait."


The victory assured Liverpool of a top four finish and a place in
next season's Champions' League, ensuring them a comfortable end
to the Premiership season.


Benitez added: "It was important, with three games to go, to be
qualified. The last three years we were playing in the Champions
League, or at least, the (final) qualifying round, so it's very
positive for the club."


For this victory, Benitez could thank Kuyt, who celebrated the
birth of his son Roan Dirk this week by scoring both Liverpool
goals.


"You can always see his desire," said Benitez. "He's a very good
worker. We know he can score goals and he was working until the
very end trying for a hat- trick."


Wigan's concerns are of an entirely different nature. This defeat
left them just three points above the relegation zone and manager
Paul Jewell admitted the defensive tactics he had adopted for
this match had failed him.


Jewell said: "We came with a game plan, to try and frustrate
Liverpool and quieten the crowd and I guess it wasn't very good
to watch.


"But we gave a bad goal away and we had to come out and try to
chase the game a little bit.


"We're playing for big stakes here and it could all come down to
goal difference so, even at 2-0, I didn't want to open it up too
much because we could lose by three, four or five and that could
prove vital. I don't like playing that way, I never have done,
but I didn't think we could come here at this stage of the season
and attack Liverpool, with the way they are playing.


"We had a couple of chances but, let's not kid ourselves,
Liverpool were in control of the game from start to finish and
strolled through the game.


"We can't compete with Liverpool on a player for player basis.
We've got to play extremely well and they've got to play badly
for us to have a chance and they cruised."


Wigan now face a crucial encounter with fellow strugglers West
Ham at the JJB Stadium next week, a game in which defeat could
lead to relegation and the loss of millions of pounds for either
team.


Jewell said: "We'd like to win but it's not a must-win game for
us. It's vital for both sides and it sets it up very nicely.


"Sixteen times we have played the top four and we haven't got a
result. They're all in the same league as us but they're not
really in our league! West Ham seem to beat the top teams but
their record against teams below is not too good. Hopefully, that
will continue next week."

