

Heavy shelling rocked the Somali capital on Sunday, raising fears
of more civilian casualties, as fighting between Ethiopian forces
and Islamist insurgents entered its fifth day.


Rival forces exchanged heavy artillery after a night of sporadic
battles, demolishing buildings in northern and southern
Mogadishu, residents said, although the latest casuality figure
remained unclear.


"We can see Ethiopian tanks firing artillery and mortar shells
towards civilian areas. They are firing indiscriminately and the
mortars are landing everywhere," said Abdulkarim Ali, a resident
of southern Mogadishu's Gupta area.


Ali said at least four people, including a child, were wounded in
the shelling that was heavy around the fortified presidential
palace, known as Villa Somalia, as well as the main Bakara
market.


The battles that flared up Wednesday have claimed the lives of at
least 168 civilians and wounded hundreds others, according to
Elman Peace and Human Rights Organisation, a local group that
tracks casualty figures.


But residents said the toll could be much higher as many
battlefields are still inaccessible.


"The fighting is going on heavily in this area. Both sides are
using machine guns and anti-aircraft guns and many people are
trapped in their houses," said Mukhtar Mohamed, a resident of
Fagar in northern Mogadishu.


"May Allah save us because He is the only one who knows when this
fighting will end," he said, adding that casualties were
"apparently increasing in this neighbourhood and people are
fleeing."


Four days of fighting earlier this month claimed at least 1,000
lives in clashes that were described as the worst bloodletting in
the country since after the 1991 ouster of dictator Mohamed Siad
Barre.


The United Nations says at least 321,000 people have fled
Mogadishu since February. Many are camped under trees and
makeshift hovels in the city's outskirts, without supplies and
where disease outbreak have been reported.


On Sunday, hundreds of terrified civilians continued filing out
of the blood- soaked capital, carrying few items as the artillery
duels showed no sign of let up.


Prospects for a ceasefire were shattered last week after the
Ethiopian forces refused to meet elders from Mogadishu's dominant
Hawiye clan until commanders of the insurgency would be present.


But the elders have blamed the Ethiopians of planning to fight
until they wipe out the insurgency and create a secure
environment for the embattled government.


Ethiopian troops helped Somalia's UN-backed transitional
government to oust Islamists from Mogadishu in January. But since
then fighting has steadily grown worse as Islamist insurgents and
clan warlords have vowed to wage a guerrilla war to oust the
Ethiopians.


Some 1,500 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda, who have
deployed in the seaside capital since early March, have been
unable to stem the escalating violence.


They have instead pitched camps in main airport, the sea port,
the presidential palace and a key access road to the airport.


The Ugandans are an advance contingent of about 8,000
peacekeepers the AU plans to deploy to help Somali President
Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed to extend his tenuous hold on the country.


Somalia has lacked an effective government since Barre's ouster
touched off a deadly power struggle that exploded into inter-clan
warfare, defying more than 14 attempts to restore stability.

