

Rangers all but clinched second place in the Scottish Premier
League on Saturday but manager Walter Smith is already turning
his attention to rebuilding for next season.


A 2-1 win at home to Hearts - with goals from Gavin Rae and Barry
Ferguson in the second half cancelling out Lithuanian Andrius
Velicka's first half opener - meant the Ibrox side are now 10
points clear of second placed Aberdeen, who drew at home to
Hibernian.


With only four games remaining, a win away to Hibs next weekend
would clinch Rangers second place - and Champions League
qualification for next season.


However, next season neither Smith, nor the Rangers support, will
be content to finish second to Celtic - who will win their second
consecutive SPL title if they win on Sunday away to Kilmarnock.


And the Rangers manager, who last week handed a one year contract
extension to veteran centre-half David Weir, promised fans
everything was being done to ensure his squad was in better shape
for the start of the new campaign.


He said: "Rangers are going to bring in new players for next
season. We have no choice.


"We have to strengthen our squad and bring in new players for
next season.


"Against Hearts we only had three senior players on the
substitute's bench and so we need to sign more players to help
us.


"So it is obvious what we need to do for next season and we will
be working on bringing in the players who can help us."


The lack of depth to Rangers squad was all too obvious from their
line up on Saturday, especially in the middle of the pitch where
they had four central midfielders and no wide men starting the
match.


Smith admitted he was forced to use players in unfamiliar
positions but was pleased with their efforts to secure the three
points that take them a step closer to Champions League football
next season.


He said: "We had to ask one or two of our players to play in
positions they weren't used to but I was delighted with their
attitude.


"I always felt that if we could keep going after Craig Gordon had
made a couple of good saves we would get our reward and that's
what happened in the end.


"The win was important in terms of finishing second. I've said
before that all sides will drop points in the games after the
league split. There's no way we are going to go through these
games against the top five teams unscathed. Hopefully we can but
it's a big ask.


"So we are delighted to pick up the win on Saturday to put us in
a favourable position to finish second."


In Saturday's game Rangers had started well but it was Hearts who
took the lead in the 15th minute.


Ghanaian Laryea Kingston picked the ball up in the centre of the
pitch and carried the ball to the edge of the Ibrox side's
penalty area before sliding a well weighted pass into Velicka who
fired low into the corner of the net.


Rangers continued to push forward and they were finally rewarded
with a 52nd minute equaliser.


Alan Hutton drove to the byline before chipping the ball back for
midfielder Rae who sent a downward header past Hearts goalkeeper
Craig Gordon from 12-yards.


And Rangers completed the victory in the 79th minute when
Croatian striker Dado Prso's cross was headed towards Ferguson by
French-Algerian Brahim Hemdani and the captain chested the ball
before spinning to send a spectacular left-footed overhead kick
into the top corner of the net.

