

A new round of mergers in the European banking industry may be
taking hold as a battle for Dutch bank ABN Amro heats up and
France's Societe Generale and Italy's UniCredit reportedly enter
talks.


German daily Handelsblatt reported Friday that Societe Generale
chief Daniel Bouton and UniCredit head Alessandro Profumo had
begun discussions, adding to several days of speculation over the
two firms.


But Societe Generale later said in a statement that no
negotiations of that kind were occurring, while UniCredit refused
to comment.


As for ABN Amro, officials from the Dutch bank were set to meet
on Monday with a consortium comprising Britain's Royal Bank of
Scotland, Santander of Spain and Belgian-Dutch group Fortis.


ABN Amro is currently in exclusive talks with British bank
Barclays over a potential takeover.


Mergers between European banks have occurred to some degree in
recent years, including Santander's purchase of Britain's Abbey
National in 2004 and France's BNP Paribas' deal for Italy's BNL
last year.


But the recent talks seem to mark a new stage in activity.


Shares in French banking group Societe Generale hit record high
points this week on rumours that UniCredit was planning a
takeover bid.


A merger between them would create the second-largest bank in
Europe behind Britain's HSBC, and the seventh-largest in the
world with a market capitalisation of about 150 billion euros
(204 billion dollars). It would include 45 billion euros (61
billion dollars) in annual revenue.


It would also mean the end of an era for Societe Generale, which
has taken a prudent approach with modest acquisitions since
failing to merge with Paribas in 1999.


The bank has remained a relatively affordable target because of
its average capitalisation.


Millan Gudka, an analyst with Dresdner Kleinswort, said the deal
would make sense "because the two companies have complementary
activities," with "most synergies occurring in finance and
investment banking."


Credit Suisse values the synergies at 2.1 billion euros and also
identifies potential savings in technology and administrative
areas.


Analysts also note the apparent good relations between the two
banks, shown by Societe Generale co-CEO Philippe Citerne's
presence on UniCredit's board until December 2005.


But analysts do not expect fast movement on a merger or takeover.
Jean-Pierre Lambert, analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods, named
obstacles such as the French presidential election and the
integration of German bank HypoVereinsbank (HVB) following its
purchase by UniCredit in 2005.

