

Sir Alex Ferguson believes the clash between Cristiano Ronaldo
and Kaka in Manchester United's Champions League semi-final clash
with AC Milan on Tuesday will showcase the two best players in
the world.


Manchester United manager Ferguson has singled out Brazil's play-
maker as the Serie A outfit's outstanding player ahead of the
Premiership leaders bid to maintain their challenge for honours
on three fronts.


And the Scot believes Ronaldo's displays this season have
justified claims the Portugese winger is currently the game's
number one talent.


Ferguson, though, has warned his side cannot afford to focus
their efforts solely on halting Kaka if they are to retain hopes
of claiming a second successive Italian scalp following the
emphatic 8-3 aggregate demolition of AS Roma.


United lost to Carlo Ancelotti's side at the quarter-final stage
two seasons ago but Ferguson is convinced his side has improved
immeasurably since then.


"I wouldn't disagree with people who say Ronaldo and Kaka are
currently the best two players in the world," he said.


"But Milan have a lot of good other players too. Paolo Maldini is
great and Clarence Seedorf has won the Champions League three
times with three different teams.


"They have fantastic experience in their team. But I think we'll
be better than the last time we played them and hopefully they
won't be as good.


"We did create chances in our last games against them - there's
no question about that. And we'll create chances on Tuesday
again. The vital question is: Can we take them? At that level if
you don't take them then you only have yourselves to blame."


Ferguson believes the maturing Ronaldo is one of the reasons his
side presents a much bigger goal threat this season than two
years ago, despite the fact the United attack was then led by the
prolific Ruud van Nistelrooy, who left for Real Madrid last
summer after scoring 150 goals for the club.


"The speed we're playing at and the penetration is creating
chances," the manager said. "Lots of players are chipping in with
their share. Ronaldo has 21 and Wayne Rooney has 20, Louis Saha
13 and Ole GUnnar Solskjaer 11. That's quite good. We have 19
different goalscorers this season. That's very high."


United's 7-1 second leg victory over Roma established the Old
Trafford club as favourites to win the competition but the
manager knows Milan will present a much tougher challenge.


"Our tactics will be different from the Roma game," he added. "In
the last game two years ago the thing that impressed me about AC
Milan there was great professionalism in both games.


"There was no diving about and they played the game properly.
They've been in 10 finals. It's a fantastic record and they have
a great history."


With an FA Cup final appearance against Chelsea looming on May
19th and the ongoing battle with Jose Mourinho's side for the
Premiership title set to go to the wire, United retain hopes of
repeating their 1999 treble.


Ferguson insists he would be satisfied if his side just managed
to win one major trophy and claims his side are showing no signs
of feeling the pressure ahead of the season's climax. He singled
out midfielder Michael Carrick as an example of his team's
development this year.


"At this time of the season you are always looking for signs from
players," he said. "You're hoping you don't see the signs but you
are always looking for them. And I've not seen any signs.


"We know we can play football and we are just going to have to
muck it out when it's necessary. We're showing great
determination to get through games. I think they're playing so
well and enjoying their football that they are all leading by
their own baton.


"They all know their own jobs and are expressing their own
personalities in matches. You look at Michael Carrick for
instance. In the last few weeks he has been absolutely
sensational and got six goals now.


"So there's no doubt that success develops players quicker. We
knew about Carrick when he was a gangly kid at Newcastle. And
last season I thought it was the right time to get him when he
was 25.


"Physically he has matured. You can see the strength in him now.
He has done a lot of work with that without our people. But I
must say the last few weeks he has been absolutely brilliant."

