

A former Philippine army colonel and self-confessed "resident
adviser" on failed coup plots, looks set to win a place on the
government's senatorial slate for next month's mid-term
elections, a media report said Sunday.


Gregorio "Gringo" Honasan, 59, was released from detention Friday
after posting bail on charges of masterminding a failed February
2006 coup against President Gloria Arroyo.


According to a report in the Philippine Star, Honasan looks set
to replace "one of the weakest candidates" on the
administration's Team Unity senatorial slate.


Former presidential chief of staff Michael Defensor was quoted as
saying he was "open" to the idea of Honasan replacing one of the
candidates, without elaborating.


The paper, quoting reliable sources, said Honasan could replace
Luis "Chavit" Singson, the man who brought down former president
Joseph Estrada after only 30 months in office, who is faring
poorly in surveys.


Honasan, who once joked that he was the country's "resident
adviser on failed coup attempts," went into hiding for nine
months before he was captured last November for his involvement
in the failed plot against Arroyo.


Under Philippine law, while Honasan has yet to be tried or found
guilty of any offence, he is free to run for office.


More than 20 officers, including two highly decorated generals,
are separately being tried in a military court for the plot,
which also allegedly involved members of the political left,
communist rebels and prominent business leaders.


As a young officer in the 1970s and 80s, Honasan distinguished
himself in active combat fighting Muslim separatists and
communist rebels, which earned him three medals for gallantry in
action.


In 1986, Honasan and a cabal of colonels tried to stir popular
unrest to overthrow dictator Ferdinand Marcos.


When Marcos discovered the plot, the conspirators sought refuge
in the military headquarters and called on civilians, the church
and the media for protection.


Thousands heeded the call, culminating in a "people power" revolt
that eventually forced Marcos to flee. A media blitz then made
Honasan, with his movie-star good looks, the "sex symbol" of a
new military after the corrupt Marcos regime.


However, ambition led him to turn against Marcos's successor,
Corazon Aquino, against whom Honasan led several bloody coup
attempts.


Honasan was granted amnesty by Fidel Ramos when he was elected
president in 1992. He was a senator from 1995 to 2004, where he
performed poorly.

