

Japan went to the polls Sunday in two upper-house by-elections
and a chain of local elections that could further weaken the
leadership of embattled Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.


The poll results will set the tone for July's national elections,
in which Abe's ruling coalition defends its slim majority in the
House of Councillors, the upper chamber of parliament.


Voters were electing senators in rural Fukushima and Okinawa as
well as mayors and assembly members in most of Japan's 47
prefectures, including Nagasaki, where the son-in-law of slain
mayor Iccho Ito ran in his place.


Ito, 61, an avid anti-nuclear campaigner in Nagasaki, died last
Wednesday after he was shot by a gangster. Ito was campaigning
for reelection.


The motive of the assassin, Tetsuya Shiroo, linked to Japan's
biggest underworld syndicate, Yamaguchi-gumi, remains unclear but
the crime is widely seen as a personal grudge.


Vote counting was to start after the polling stations closed at
8:00 pm (1100 GMT).


The two upper-house seats were vacated by members of the main
opposition Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) when they opted to run
in gubernatorial elections.


Polls showed a candidate jointly backed by the DPJ and other
opposition parties was leading in Fukushima but another in
Okinawa was neck-and-neck with a rival on the ruling coalition
ticket.


Abe's long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) relies on the
help of its smaller coalition partner, the Buddhist-backed New
Komeito, for the coalition's current 133-majority in the
242-member upper house.


Half of the chamber will be contested in July and the LDP and New
Komeito would need to win 65 seats to maintain a majority if they
lost in both by-elections.


The LDP won 49 seats and New Komeito 13 in the last election,
three years ago.


"Demands for a government shake-up may be refuelled" if the LDP-
led coalition loses in both Fukushima and Okinawa, the
influential daily Asahi said.


The leading business daily Nikkei said Sunday's results will
"indicate the course of the July upper-house elections."


On Saturday, the premier campaigned in Naha, in Okinawa, a remote
island chain where a massive US military presence has inhibited
urban growth.


As the LDP head, he vowed to bring the benefits of the nation's
economic recovery to the fringes and "expand Naha Airport as top
priority."


But DPJ leader Ichiro Ozawa declared his party would win the by-
elections and "switch the ruling and opposition blocs in the
upper-house elections."


Abe, vowing to build a "beautiful nation" proud of its history,
took office last September with a nationalist agenda, including
the revision of the post-war pacifist constitution.


But his approval rating has dipped below 40 percent as he has
failed to address such major economic issues as the troubled
pension system while some of his government ministers have been
involved in scandals and gaffes.


Although the ruling coalition holds two thirds of the 480 seats
in the all- important House of Representatives, losing control in
the upper chamber could throw national politics into confusion.


The local elections are for mayors and chiefs in 77 cities, 96
towns and villages and 13 wards in Tokyo. Seats in about 780
local assemblies are also being contested.


In a round of local elections two weeks ago, LDP-linked
candidates won nine of 11 gubernatorial elections. But the number
of LDP seats in prefectural assemblies fell.

