

The United States and its NATO allies will endeavour this week at
ministerial level to bridge major differences with Russia over
the threat posed to Europe by missile attack.


At informal talks in Oslo, Norway, foreign ministers from the
military alliance will appraise their Russian counterpart Sergei
Lavrov of US plans to build part of its anti-missile shield in
the Czech Republic and Poland.


"We will certainly do this with minister Sergei Lavrov," NATO
Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer said Thursday. "I am
quite sure that missile defence will be one of the important
issues that we discuss there."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also reaffirmed Friday
that Washington remained committed to discussing the plan with
Russia "because we all face a common threat and we need to
prepare for those threats."


The Oslo talks on Thursday will be the highest-level forum yet to
discuss the shield, expected to be up and running by 2013 and
which Russia fears could be aimed at its missile defences.


Moscow has warned that such an installation could start another
arms race and has promised to counter it unless it is closely
consulted.


"We are against the fact that such decisions are simply taken
unilaterally," Russia's ambassador to NATO, Konstantin Totsky,
said Thursday, after detailing Moscow's objections to the 26 NATO
allies.


Washington says the system is aimed at countering missile threats
from "rogue states" like Iran, or possibly North Korea.


It would see 10 interceptors without warheads installed in Poland
and a radar based in the Czech Republic linked to a mobile
forward warning system, probably in the Caucasus region.


Russia does not want its former Cold War foe setting up military
hardware in its back yard, nor in former Soviet satellite states.
Moscow also says that Iran's current missile arsenal poses no
threat to Europe.


"There are some divergences that relate to the threat
assessment," said Totsky. "When that threat will come? In a few
days or in several years? Secondly, relating to the scale of that
threat."


"We have differing views on the geography of the US-European site
and I propose that our experts get together to scrutinise, for
instance, the range of Iran's missiles."


To improve the atmosphere, Washington offered to share early
warning missile data, proposed inter-operability between Russian
and US missile systems, to hold joint exercises and suggested
ideas for a broader defence partnership.


But Russian First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, a former
defence minister, appeared to reject the proposals, made by a US
delegation in Moscow on Tuesday.


"We cannot understand what Eastern Europe needs this system for,"
he was quoted as saying by Interfax. "I honestly see no basis for
speaking of possible cooperation."


But this may have been more rhetorical bluster than a real
refusal.


"We will scrutinise these proposals and we will come back to our
US colleagues," Totsky said later.


Russia aside, the shield has also met with scepticism among the
NATO allies themselves.


Germany insists that all of Europe should be covered by the
system and that Russia must be more involved in setting it up,
although the alliance is united in not wanting to give Moscow a
"veto" over the project, according to diplomats.


NATO members Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Turkey would not fall
fully under the umbrella, and the 26 nations have discussed the
possibility of "bolting on" a planned theatre defence missile
system, normally for troops in the field.


This system is still being tested and will not be operational
before 2010.


The talks in Oslo, at which no formal decisions will be taken,
will follow a meeting in Moscow between Ivanov and US Secretary
of Defense Robert Gates.

