

Sunni leaders from western Iraq condemned Sunday the killing of
the chairman of Fallujah city council, a critic of the Al-Qaeda
militant group and the fourth holder of the post to be
assassinated.


"We strongly condemn the murder of our friend the chairman of the
Fallujah City Council Sheikh Sami Naib al-Jumaili," said Anbar
Governor Ma'amun Sami Rashid Al-Alwani and Provincial Council
chairman Abdulsalam Abdullah.


"He was one of the many good people of the province who worked to
help the city of Fallujah rebuild and regain life," they said, in
a joint statement made available to AFP by the US military.


"This murder was a crime against all of the citizens of Iraq,"
they said.


According to police in Fallujah, Sheikh Jumaili was gunned down
Saturday in front of his home in the Golan district in the north
of Fallujah, an unruly western Iraqi city once known as an
insurgent stronghold.


Three of his predecessors as chairman of the council have also
been killed over the past 14 months, in a bitter struggle between
Sunni leaders who want to cooperate with US forces and Al-Qaeda-
led extremists.


The murder came two days after US Defence Secretary Robert Gates
visited a military base just outside Fallujah to inspect
operations in an area where commanders believe they can win the
war against the insurgents.


"I offer my most sincere condolences to the family, friends, and
those dearest to Sheikh Sami Naib al-Jumaili," said Major General
Walter Gaskin, commander of US forces in western Iraq.


"A true son of Fallujah, he embodied the spirit and strength of
his community through his commitment to rebuild and restore hope
and prosperity to the city of Fallujah," he added, in a
statement.


"His assassination only underscores the desperation of those who
took his life. Multi National Force-West stands shoulder to
shoulder with city leaders and Iraqi Security Forces against
these cowardly acts," he added.


Anbar province is home almost exclusively for tribes from Iraq's
Sunni minority which were once allied to ousted dictator Saddam
Hussein, and has been a hotbed of resistance to US forces since
their March 2003 invasion.


Since September, however, an alliance of tribal sheikhs under the
banner of the "Anbar Awakening" has arisen to fight the influence
of foreign-based Islamist groups like Al-Qaeda and work with
government security forces.

