

From gaps in its mental health system to lax gun laws, the
deadliest school shooting in US history exposed problems in
American society that will remain long after the last victim is
buried.


As students prepare to resume classes at Virginia Tech on Monday,
questions linger as to how a profoundly disturbed classmate could
remain in their midst and so easily obtain the weapons he used to
turn classrooms into carnage.


Nearly a week after Cho Seung-Hui, a Virginia Tech senior with a
history of troubling behavior, gunned down 32 students and
teachers, his fellow students, professors and university
officials are still grappling to find the answers.


So is the rest of America -- to these and a host of other
questions.


The 23-year-old student's bloody rampage has sparked a bout of
national soul- searching comparable to that which accompanied
other recent traumatic events such as the 1999 Columbine
massacre, September 11, 2001 attacks and the Iraq war.


From Blacksburg to Boston, Americans have been groping for
explanations for the tragedy which has dominated newspapers and
newscasts for a week.


US President George W. Bush announced Saturday in his weekly
radio address he had ordered top officials from the departments
of education, justice and health to conduct a "review of the
broader questions raised by this tragedy."


"We can never fully understand what would cause a student to take
the lives of 32 innocent people," Bush said. "What we do know is
that this was a deeply troubled young man -- and there were many
warning signs."


An opponent of stiffer gun control laws, the president did not
respond to the inevitable calls for a tightening of gun
legislation which have followed the tragedy.


He touched on one of the other issues which has come to the fore,
however -- the difficulties of handling individuals with mental
health issues and how Cho appears to have fallen between the
cracks of the state and university health care systems.


"Our society continues to wrestle with the question of how to
handle individuals whose mental health problems can make them a
danger to themselves and others," Bush said.


Cho's family apologized Friday for his crimes, which had caused
"excruciating grief," and expressed bewilderment that he had
committed them.


"We have always been a close, peaceful and loving family. My
brother was quiet and reserved, yet struggled to fit in. We never
could have envisioned that he was capable of so much violence,"
read the statement released by Cho's sister Cho Sun-Kyung.


Fellow students and teachers have described Cho as a silent,
sullen loner who resisted friendly overtures and whose violent
writings and intimidating manner raised alarm bells among some
professors.


Following a stalking incident of a female student and amid fears
he may be suicidal, Cho was committed to a mental health facility
in December 2005.


He was released the next day, however, after a doctor determined
that while he was suffering from mental illness and may be a
danger to himself he was not a danger to others.


Cho was ordered to undergo outpatient counseling. University
officials have acknowledged that they do not know if he actually
underwent treatment and in any case state privacy regulations
would prohibit them from finding out.


In an editorial, The Boston Globe newspaper linked the gun
control and mental health issues.


"The institutions of Virginia made it hard to intervene in his
mental illness, but easy for him to purchase the tools of mass
murder," it said.


The Washington Post also urged the state to tighten gun laws
which allowed Cho to obtain two handguns despite being labelled a
danger to himself and others just 16 months earlier.


"Virginia is among the nation's most gun-friendly states and it
would be nice to think that the massacre in Blacksburg might jar
legislators from their complacent romance with firearms," it said
in an editorial.


Cho provided his own explanation for his actions -- and
compelling evidence of his unbalanced condition -- in a multi-
media manifesto he mailed to the US television network NBC.


In a series of short videos, Cho brandished guns and knives,
ranted about how he had been "forced into a corner" and depicted
himself as a long-suffering martyr like Jesus Christ.


The airing and release of Cho's videos and photos by NBC News led
to a backlash against the media which has come under fire in some
quarters for giving the killer the podium he sought and
potentially encouraging copycats.


"The unfortunate thing is, he was seeking publicity and he got
it," said Mardi Horowitz, a professor of psychiatry at the
University of California, San Francisco. "There's a danger of all
kinds of copycat people looking for media glory."


The copycat charge has also been flung at the entertainment
industry amid reports Cho may have been inspired by a 2003 South
Korean film called "Oldboy."


In his manifesto, Cho, who came to the United States from South
Korea when he was eight years old, included a picture of himself
holding a hammer over his head which is remarkably similar to one
of the hero in the South Korean movie.


Violent video games have also been targeted for criticism -- Cho
was reportedly a fan of Counter-Strike, a first-person shooter
game in which counter-terrorists hunt down and shoot terrorists.

