

The Nordic region, traditionally a bastion of social democracy
and the welfare state, is being swept by a wave of market
liberalisation with four of the five countries now governed by
conservatives.


While no one in Denmark, Finland, Iceland or Sweden wants to
abolish the welfare state, the four countries are intent on
dusting off the model, in place since the postwar period and
based on high taxation to fund generous benefits.


The Nordic countries are becoming a little less unique as they
turn "more mainstream European," Klas Eklund, chief economist at
Swedish bank SEB, told AFP.


"This is not a revolution in the French way with people in the
street striking, this is a revolution in the Nordic way -- many
small steps which are gradually moving, changing society," he
said.


The changes are taking place "not rapidly or violently, but in a
gradual fashion," and over the course of a decade or two the many
small steps will add up to "a significant change."


He said the shift was a reflection of the fact that "the tax
ceiling has been reached and it's necessary to increase
efficiency. Furthermore, the working class base is gradually
eroding as the middle class is growing."


Finland this week became the latest Nordic country to shift to
the right, with the appointment of Prime Minister Matti
Vanhanen's new centre-right government. Norway is now the only
country in the region to be governed by the left-wing.


Vanhanen has formed a coalition between the Centre Party and the
conservatives, following in the footsteps of his Swedish
conservative counterpart Fredrik Reinfeldt who heads a centre-
right coalition in power since last October.


The new Finnish government's programme even closely resembles
Reinfeldt's, introducing a series of tax cuts and an emphasis on
getting Finns back to work.


Sweden has already reformed its unemployment insurance scheme,
raising premiums and reducing benefits in order to give people
more incentive to work.


Vanhanen has called for tax cuts of almost two billion euros (2.7
billion dollars) by 2011. Sweden has already announced plans to
abolish wealth tax and property tax, on the heels of the previous
Social Democratic government's decision to abolish inheritance
tax.


But despite these changes, the shift to the right is moderate,
according to the director of the Swedish Centre for Business and
Policy Studies (SNS), Stefan Lundgren.


"In Denmark and Sweden and now in Finland, the conservatives have
been very clear: they are not going to make major changes to the
welfare state. That's one of the reasons why they managed to get
the electorates' support," he said.


"They are promising certain reforms but the basic structure
remains the same," he added.


Politicians across the board in the Nordics have been marked by
the decades of social democracy, colouring their political
convictions -- even those on the right-wing.


Eklund noted that in Denmark and Sweden, Liberal Prime Minister
Anders Fogh Rasmussen and conservative Prime Minister Fredrik
Reinfeldt "have taken power partly by moving to the centre and
stealing Social Democratic rhetoric."


According to Lars Bille, a political scientist at Copenhagen
University, Denmark's Liberal-Conservative government has largely
"toed the line of the Social Democrats, adopting many of their
policies and the traditional weapons of social democracy."


Denmark has seen only small changes since Rasmussen came to power
in 2001 after immigration problems led to a strong right-wing
surge following nine years of Social Democratic rule.


"Voters consider the current prime minister just as good a
guarantor of the welfare state, and he even has a better economic
record," Bille said.


Eklund agreed that the Nordics' shift to the right is about
modernising the welfare model and rendering it more efficient, a
process already undertaken in part in Sweden by the Social
Democrats who vastly reduced the public sector in the 1990s.


He maintained that the biggest threat to the welfare state was
not from right- wing parties but from other factors such as aging
populations and climate change.


"The challenge for the welfare state doesn't come from the
domestic policies, but from globalisation and the difficulties of
raising (already-high) taxes," he said.


It remains to be seen whether the Nordic conservatives will
remain in power long enough to see the real results of their
reforms. In Iceland, voters go to the polls on May 12.

