

Baring his back, Terence Newman shows off the bold, blue tattoo
engraved on his skin that leaves no doubt about his allegiance:
ENGLAND.


"I'm proud to be English," the 32-year-old said outside his
office on a street in east London where working-class whites mix
with east European, south Asian and other immigrants.


But Newman, and many like him, complain it is harder these days
to openly express their pride in England, even in the run-up to
St George's Day on Monday, which marks the reputed martyrdom of
England's patron saint in 303.


They blame it on a culture of "political correctness" they say is
stifling "Englishness" in order to pacify secessionist-minded
Scots and Welsh as well as immigrants who complain of
institutional racism.


Many complain of curbs on flying the English national flag -- a
white background with red cross otherwise known as St. George's
Cross -- on public buildings.


Some politicians fear populist rivals want to fan such resentment
and channel it into an English separatist movement, along the
lines of the Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru of Wales.


Gordon Brown, the Labour finance minister tipped to succeed Tony
Blair as prime minister this year, warned of a "dangerous drift"
toward separatism when England and Scotland marked 300 years of
parliamentary union in January.


Britain is being "challenged in Scotland, Wales and now England
by secessionists," Brown -- a high-profile Scot -- warned,
condemning "an opportunist coalition" of parties exploiting what
"divides us rather than what unites."


But Colin Copus, an analyst at Birmingham University, thinks a
breakup is a long way off.


A number of separatist parties including the English Nationalist
Party, the England First Party, and the English Independence
Party are among those fighting in local elections next month.


"I don't think they will make a big breakthrough this May," said
Copus.


Robin Tilbrook, chairman of the small English Democrats which
includes both federalists and separatists, said English
separatism is partly fueled by its cousin in Scotland.


"In some ways, the English people have woken up to the idea that
Scots don't actually want to be British," he told AFP.


At sporting events, English fans have virtually dropped the red-
white-and-blue Union Flag -- which stands for all of Britain --
for the national flag. Scots and Welsh have long preferred their
own banners.


Now Newman and others would like to see the English flag fly on
public buildings, just as the white-on-blue St. Andrews flag does
in Scotland.


When asked why the English banner was not flying above Barking
Magistrates Court where Newman is a clerical worker, he smiled
wryly and said: "It's racist."


Even more annoyed are the firefighters and maintenance crew at
the Barking Fire Brigade, one of whom hoisted the flag on the
station last year before he was ordered to take it down.


A spokesman for the London Fire Brigade said stations can fly the
national flag on April 23 but not on other days unless the fire
commissioner approves it.


"It's political correctness gone mad," said a crew member who
asked not to be named -- his phrase reminiscent of a last year's
rally cry by the populist daily The Sun which urged readers to
slay "the dragon of political correctness" by proudly flying the
national flag on April 23.


St. George's Day, which comes and goes with little fanfare, has
become a focus for some patriots who want it turned into a
national holiday, meaning a day off from work.


"I feel they (politicians) should push for it to be a public
holiday," said the fire maintenance crew member.


He found it ironic that the London authorities teamed up with
Dublin to celebrate Ireland's national holiday, St. Patrick's Day
on March 17 -- an event exported worldwide -- but cannot generate
the same enthusiasm for St. George's Day.


But the problem goes beyond symbols and holidays.


Many English voters resent Scots for getting what they see as the
best of both worlds, according to Tilbrook and Copus.


They are unhappy, for example, with a constitution that allows
Scottish lawmakers to vote on English issues at Westminster while
their English colleagues have no say on policy north of the
border.


The Scottish Parliament in Edinburgh controls policy in Scotland
over issues such as health and education, but lawmakers in London
retain control over such things as defense, foreign affairs and
major economic issues.


What's more, Tilbrook and Copus said, many English resent that so
many Scots hold prominent cabinet jobs in Prime Minister Tony
Blair's government as well as in the opposition Conservative and
Liberal Democrat parties.


Opinion polls in recent months have shown a majority of Scots but
now also English wanting a divorce.


In January, The Daily Mail found 48 percent of the English and 51
percent of the Scots want a split, while 39 percent of the
English and 36 percent of Scots are against. Another 12 percent
in England and 14 percent in Scotland were undecided.


Lord George Foulkes, a vocal Labour Party opponent of separatism
who sits in the unelected House of Lords, warned poll results may
be misleading.


"It's an amalgam of those who genuinely want independence and
those who are dissatisfied," he said.

