

After 100 days in office, Austria's coalition government of
Social Democrats and conservatives has little to show for itself
except a few broken promises but things are looking up, observers
say.


A poll by the Imas institute showed that less than 19 percent of
Austrians thought the coalition had "done a good job" since
taking office on January 11.


Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer's Social Democrats -- who narrowly
won parliamentary elections on October 1 with 35.3 percent of the
vote to 34.3 percent for the conservative People's Party --
initially conceded key ministries to the conservatives, including
the interior, economy and finance.


Gusenbauer was then forced to renege on his campaign promise to
scrap university tuition fees under pressure from his coalition
partner.


But the student protests that greeted the swearing in of the new
government were short-lived and the socialist student association
simply deplored "100 days of black (conservative) policy under a
red (Socialist) chancellor."


For political scientist Anton Pelinka, "nothing significant has
happened in these 100 days, neither positive nor negative."


"The atmosphere between the two coalition partners is not bad,
both are trying to avoid frictions," he added.


But Gusenbauer says he is "satisfied" with his government's
record up to now.


"We again have a government that takes care of people," he told
journalists Friday, before listing issues close to his heart such
as pensions, the fight against poverty, education and
unemployment, which he has promised to cut by 25 percent.


"We are very close" to achieving that result, he noted, even
though Austria's 4.4-percent jobless rate, down from 4.7 percent
in October, is already one of the lowest in the European Union.


But since revelations emerged about a contract signed by the
previous government to buy 18 Eurofighter jets for two billion
euros (2.7 billion dollars), "the Social Democrats have been
riding high," the daily Die Presse commented.


Gusenbauer's electoral promise to scrap the Eurofighter contract
seemed unrealistic until recently but "now seems within reach,"
the newspaper Der Standard added.


The Social Democrats, who always opposed the purchase, saying the
aircraft were too expensive and inappropriate for a small neutral
country, launched a parliamentary commission with the
environmental Green party and the far-right to examine the
contract.


Now after months of fruitless research, it discovered that a
lobbyist for aerospace giant EADS, which manufactures the
Eurofighters, paid 87,600 euros to a company run by the wife of
Austria's former air force chief Erich Wolf, when the contract
for the aircraft was being negotiated.


Under the contract, no benefits are to be granted to anyone
linked to the awarding of the contract and Wolf was suspended.


But Social Democrat Defence Minister Norbert Darabos, who is
handling the dossier, now faces criticism for refusing to publish
an expert report on Austria's chances of scrapping the contract.


As legal experts take over the issue, Austria is facing having to
pay for the first Eurofighters, which are to be delivered in
November.

