

"Drinking alcohol is strictly prohibited," reads the sign at the
entrance of a sprawling park in Ankara's Eryaman suburb. At a
downtown swimming pool, men and women bathe on separate days.


The facilities are run by the Ankara municipality, held by the
ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), a conservative
movement with Islamist roots, which Turkey's army-backed
secularist establishment accuses of eroding this mainly Muslim
nation's fiercely guarded secular system.


Concerns over pro-Muslim moves by the AKP since it came to power
in November 2002 culminated last weekend in an unprecedented
rally that saw more than 500,000 people demonstrate against any
intentions Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan may have of
running for president in an election next month.


"If you drink, the sin is all yours. How does that concern the
mayor?" says a waiter in a cafe at the Eryaman park.


The AKP argues that the law obliges authorities to discourage
youth from "bad habits" and that drinkers can easily find booze
elsewhere.


But for its opponents, the "dry" parks are just a rehearsal for
the AKP's wider Islamist ambitions.


"The AKP is sneaking in a plan to Islamicise the state. I feel my
lifestyle is being threatened," said Hakan, a guitarist with a
popular Ankara rock band, who attended last week's rally.


The lifestyle he wants to preserve typically reflects Turkey's
Westernised face: stylish youths mix freely, sipping beer and
dancing around the bar stage, as Hakan's band shakes the place to
the beat of Led Zeppelin or The Rolling Stones.


Suspicions about AKP intentions mounted last year when a
government regulation allowed municipalities to move drinking
establishments into special areas outside the cities. A court
scrapped the regulation, but huge taxes slapped on spirits remain
in place.


The AKP has disowned its Islamist roots, pledged adherence to
secularism and enacted a series of democracy reforms to boost
Turkey's bid to join the European Union.


But Hakan, like many secular Turks, fears that with Erdogan in
the presidential palace, the AKP will seize the state's last
secular bastion and get a free hand to "step by step advance its
secret fundamentalist agenda."


Outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, a hardline secularist,
often vetoed laws he deemed anti-secular and blocked the
appointment of officials he saw as Islamist government cronies,
including an expert on interest-free Islamic capital markets who
was nominated for Central Bank governor.


One of Turkey's leading teachers' trade unions, Egitim-Sen,
estimates the AKP has replaced 30 percent of senior education
officials with cronies mainly from Muslim preacher training
schools widely regarded as the backyard of political Islam.


"A preaching school background has virtually become a criterion
for promotion," union chairman Alaattin Dincer said. "Islamic
elements are constantly creeping into schoolbooks."


The education ministry recently censored a schoolbook over a
reproduction of Delacroix's renowned Liberty Leading the People,
because Liberty's breasts are bare.


A paragraph in another textbook that said water used for pre-
prayer ablutions helps increase red blood cells was struck out
only after a media outcry.


Several AKP municipalities have distributed leaflets promoting a
strict Islamist lifestyle, including poligamy.


Erdogan himself has revealed a deeply religious mindset in
moments of anger.


He once scolded a journalist for "stinking of alcohol" to fend
off a pointed question. In 2005, he slammed the European Court of
Human Rights for upholding a ban on the Islamic headscraf in
Turkish universities, saying Islamic scholars should decide the
issue.


Several months later, an Islamist militant killed a judge in a
raid on Turkey's top administrative court to avenge the ban,
triggering a furore and accusations that government policies
embolden extremists.


But many liberals too oppose the headscarf ban, arguing that
Turkey's rigid interpretation of secularism violates freedom of
conscience.


They say Turkey's secular system is sound and the alarm among
secularists is fanned by politicians who failed to stop Erdogan's
rise in a country where, polls show, people increasingly identify
with Islam.


Erdogan will say whether or not he will stand for president on
Tuesday or Wednesday.

