

Michael Vaughan paid tribute to Brian Lara after the West Indies
batting legend bowed out of cricket, describing the man who
regularly tormented England with his record-breaking exploits as
a "genius".


"In some ways, it's great to see the back of him because he's
scored a lot of runs against us and it will be nice to play
against the West Indies without him because we'll probably get
them out for a few runs less," smiled the England skipper after
his team's one-wicket World Cup win over the hosts on Saturday.


Lara, who scored a world record of 375 and then bettered it to
400 not out -- both against England -- retired from international
cricket on Saturday after a glittering 17-year career.


The 37-year-old master batsman couldn't deliver a final,
commanding performance as he fell, run out for just 18 before his
team lost their last Super Eights match to finish sixth in the
World Cup. England finished fifth.


"Lara is a genius. There are not many geniuses in the game and we
are losing one today. The England team and all our supporters
wish him well in retirement. He has had a great career," said
Vaughan whose side chased down a victory target of 301 at the
Kensington Oval.


"He's done wonders for the game of cricket worldwide, not only in
the Caribbean. In the circumstances, if he had got going today we
could have been chasing 350."


The match also marked the end of Duncan Fletcher's reign as
England coach. Fletcher stepped down from his post to make way
for Peter Moores.


"We wanted to perform well today because a couple of our staff
were leaving - Fletcher and physio Dean Conway - they were part
of our setup for a number of years so we wanted to win for them."


Vaughan said England's failing to qualify for the World Cup semi-
finals was a huge disappointment.


"We won the last game but we haven't done what we thought we
should have done in this World Cup. We have to be realistic and
say we didn't do what we came here to do," said Vaughan.


Defending champions Australia, Sri Lanka, New Zealand and South
Africa qualified for the semi-finals.


"We didn't play to our potential. It's disappointing that we
didn't go through to the semi-finals but I guess that this was
the best game in the tournament," added Vaughan.


"There was a big crowd and a great atmposphere, we were proud to
be involved in it."


Vaughan believes England can start afresh with a new coach.


"Now Peter comes in and I am sure he has his own ideas, and that
will be a fresh start. What is important is that we are to play
the West Indies in a few weeks' time. We are going to be a very
similar side, and we wanted to get one up on them going into the
Test series."


England host the West Indies for four Tests and three one-day
internationals starting in May.


"We have a lot of young players coming up and Ravi Bopara is one
of them. He looked good with whatever opportunities have been
given to him," said Vaughan of the all-rounder.

