

Ten young men and a woman, detained over the brutal slaying of
three Protestants in eastern Turkey, were brought to court on
Sunday to face possible charges, the Anatolia news agency
reported.


The 12th suspect, allegedly the leader of the assailants, remains
in hospital with a serious head injury after jumping from the
third-floor office of a Christian publishing house in Malatya,
where two Turks and a German had their throats slit Wednesday.


The gruesome murders were the latest attack on non-Muslim
minorities in Turkey following the killings of a Roman Catholic
priest last year and an ethnic Armenian journalist in January.


Police brought the suspects to the courthouse in armoured
vehicles and  stepped up security in the area, Anatolia said.


The suspects were expected to be questioned by a prosecutor and
then appear before a judge, who may either charge and jail them
pending trial or order their release.


One of the suspects reportedly filmed the murders on his mobile
telephone.


He told the police he was asked to record the grisly scenes by
the alleged leader of the assailants, 19-year-old Emre Gunaydin,
who remains under treatment in hospital, the mass-selling Sabah
daily said.


The three victims, who belonged to the tiny Protestant community
in Malatya, were tied to chairs and tortured for three hours as
their assailants interrogated them on their missionary activities
before killing them.


The Zirve publishing house distributed Bibles and published
Christian literature.


Proselytizing is not banned in Turkey, but is generally
unwelcome.


Four suspects were captured at the crime scene when police raided
the publishing house, alerted by a member of the local Protestant
community who grew suspicious when he found the office door
locked.


Gunaydin jumped from the window to escape arrest.


The sole woman in the group, detained Saturday, has been
identified as his girlfriend.


Officials have not revealed the details of the remaining six men,
who were detained Thursday and Friday, saying only that all
suspects are aged 19 and 20.


According to media reports, the alleged killers are believed to
be members of a cell of nationalist Islamist radicals similar to
one in the northern city of Trabzon blamed for the murder of
Turkish-Armenian journalist Hrant Dink.


Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the European
Union that Turkey is seeking to join, has urged Ankara to take
measures to protect religious freedom.

