

Cristiano Ronaldo's second half penalty was enough to secure
Manchester United a single-goal victory over Middlesbrough in
their FA Cup quarter-final replay.


Alex Ferguson's side now face a semi-final clash with Watford
after the Portugese winger claimed his 18th goal of an
outstanding season.


Ronaldo has been United's stand-out player in recent weeks and it
was his late penalty that had kept his side in the competition
when the two sides played out a 2-2 draw nine days previously.


Then with Ferguson's side struggling to match their recent form
against a determined Boro, the 22-year-old forced a careless
lunge from Jonathan Woodgate to earn the 76th minute spot-kick he
duly placed beyond keeper Marl Schwarzer.


Then in the dying seconds of the game, Ronaldo's torment of the
frustrated visitors was complete when he was hacked down by James
Morrison earning the Boro substitute a straight red card.


Morrison's ugly lunge sparked a confrontation between both sets
of players and assistant managers Carlos Queiroz and Malcolm
Crosby exchanged angry words after the final whistle.


Prior to Ronaldo's match-winning intervention, United had looked
a pale shadow of the side that harbours hopes of repeating their
treble of 1999.


Surprisingly it was England striker Wayne Rooney who was
responsible for ensuring Ferguson's side endured an uncomfortable
night with two glaring misses after being sent clear on
Schwarzer's goal.


Gareth Southgate's move to rest three key players - Mark Viduka,
Julio Arca and Jonathan Woodgate - for the weekend defeat to
Manchester City had provoked an angry response from Neil Warnock,
manager of City's relegation rivals Sheffield United.


Southgate admitted the decision had been taken with this fixture
in mind and initially appeared to be justified as Boro's
energetic approach unsettled the home side.


With Paul Scholes serving the final game of a three-match
suspension, Ryan Giggs slotted in alongside Michael Carrick in
central midfield but the makeshift pairing at first struggled to
match the more upbeat display Arca and George Boateng.


And when Mark Viduka wastefully pulled a good opportunity wide
when free on the edge of the United area, the visitors appeared
capable of ending the home side's hopes of maintaining an
interest on three fronts.


Slowly United made their presence felt with Cristiano Ronaldo
once again the main focal point for their more impressive move.


For once, though, the Portugese winger lacked his usual cutting
edge and was guilty of over-elaborating after working his way
into the Boro box in the 34th minute, allowing Woodgate to clear
from the toe of the lurking Alan Smith.


And the sense that United were not at their ruthless grew when
Rooney wasted the first of two good chances when he allowed
Schwarzer to snuff out the opportunity.


But fears that the home side would pay for their sloppy finishing
were eased when Boro's Stewart Downing missed a good 55th minute
chance before Ronaldo's late intervention eased home nerves.

