

A US army sergeant was sentenced to 10 years in prison by a
military court Monday after being convicted of negligent homicide
in the killing of unarmed Iraqi detainees in May 2006.


Staff Sergeant Raymond Girouard, 24, avoided the more serious
charge of premeditated murder, which could have sent him to life
in prison, when the court convicted him Friday at the Fort
Campbell military base in Kentucky.


Instead, he was found guilty of three counts of negligent
homicide, conspiracy to obstruct justice, obstruction of justice
and violation of a general order.


"Girouard was sentenced (Monday) to 10 years in confinement, a
dishonorable discharge, reduction to Private (E-1), and
forfeiture of all pay and allowances," said Master Sergeant Terry
Webster, a Fort Campbell spokesman.


"Girouard's was the fourth and final case that stemmed from the
killing of three male detainees on May 9, 2006, during the 101st
Airborne Division's deployment to Iraq," Webster said in a
statement.


Three other soldiers who had already pleaded guilty in the case
testified against their former squad leader during the trial,
saying Girouard gathered them in a room in a house to tell them
that the detainees would be shot, and the deaths would be covered
up.


They said he urged them to remove their handcuffs to mask their
crime as an attempt to stop the prisoners' escape.


Girouard denied the accusations.


But he admitted during the trial that he tried to help cover up
the murders after arriving on the scene, cutting one of his
soldiers with a knife and punching another in the face to make it
look like a struggle had occurred.


"I was looking out for the well-being of my soldiers," he had
testified.


"I had to help him be believable. He screwed up real bad ... I
knew he was going to go down hard," he told the court.


The two soldiers who shot the prisoners pleaded guilty to murder
and were each sentenced to 18 years in prison, in exchange for
their testimony in a plea agreement. A third soldier was
sentenced to nine months in prison in the case.

