

The United States has granted visas to Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and bodyguards so he can address the UN
Security Council when it votes on a new sanctions resolution to
curb his country's nuclear program, a senior US official said
Monday.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the visas,
requested by Iran last week, covered 13 officials and diplomats
and 26 security agents.


Iran made an additional request on Monday for visas for 33 air
crew and those were also expected to be granted, he said.


"We are not going to be in any way hindering the ability of
President Ahmadinejad to appear before the Security Council," he
said.


Asked if US authorities had any plans to question Ahmadinejad
about US accusations that his government has provided weapons
used to kill US soldiers in Iraq, McCormack said he was not aware
of any such planned action.


Washington and Tehran have not had direct diplomatic ties since
the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.


McCormack reiterated US calls for the Iranian president to use
his speech to the Security Council to accept UN demands to
suspend Iran's uranium enrichment program and enter into
negotiations with the major UN powers.


"It would be an important moment for President Ahmadinejad in his
address to the Security Council to take the opportunity to say,
'We are going to negotiate, we do not seek confrontation, we seek
dialogue', and to accept the offer of negotiations that has been
put forth," McCormack said.


"We'll see whether or not he wants to go down the pathway of
confrontation or the pathway of dialogue," he said.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, meanwhile, discussed
preparations for the new UN sanctions vote with her counterparts
from the European Union and Germany.


"We emphasized again that while the Security Council, we hope,
will act very soon, we still hope that there are those in Iran
who wish to take advantage of the offer to negotiate that has
been put before the Iranian government," Rice said after those
talks.


Tehran has given no sign of yielding in its refusal of UN demands
that it suspend a uranium reprocessing program the West fears is
aimed at producing nuclear weapons but which Iran insists is for
peaceful energy purposes only.


The 15-member Security Council is due to meet Wednesday to review
a draft sanctions resolution against Iran agreed last week by the
body's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia
and the United States -- plus Germany.


A vote on the draft, which toughened sanctions already adopted by
the council in December, was likely to follow a few days later,
diplomats at the world body said.


The new draft would bar Iran from exporting arms and restrict the
sale or transfer to Tehran of equipment including battle tanks,
combat aircraft, attack helicopters and missiles.


It calls for a voluntary travel ban on additional officials
involved in Iran's "proliferation-sensitive" nuclear and
ballistic missile programs.


It also urges voluntary restrictions on "new commitments for
grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to Iran" as
well as extending an assets freeze to additional entities and
individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and missile programs.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply with repeated UN
demands or face "further appropriate measures" (economic
sanctions but no military action) under Article 41 of the UN
Charter.


The United States says it wants a diplomatic solution to the
nuclear standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option.

