

The dollar traded mainly higher Monday as traders positioned for
US housing market data and a meeting of the Federal Reserve, with
the yen weakening ahead of a Bank of Japan policy meeting.


The dollar climbed to 117.59 yen at 2000 GMT, from 116.70 yen
late on Friday.


The euro dipped to 1.3297 dollars in late European trading on
Monday from 1.3309 dollars in New York late on Friday.


Sue Voigtsberger at PNC Bank said the dollar got a modest lift
from a strong day on global stock markets, but that direction
would be determined by this week's data on US housing starts and
the outcome of the two-day Fed meeting which opens Wednesday.


"The negative effects of sub-prime mortgage defaults are still
lingering and traders remain cautious," she said, referring to
the riskiest part of the US mortgage market, which has seen
increasing pressure.


"Tomorrow brings the start of the Federal Open Market Committee
Meeting and the release of US housing starts ... I expect the
currency markets will be quiet, but nervous ahead of the housing
data and Fed decision."


The Fed is widely expected to keep its short term interest rate,
the Fed funds rate, pegged at 5.25 percent.


Meanwhile the Bank of Japan began a two-day policy board meeting
on Monday but no change was expected after last month's quarter-
point hike to 0.5 percent, which was the first rate increase
since July.


The yen continued to edge lower across the board as a rebound in
equities sparked renewed interest in the carry trade -- when
money is borrowed in low- yielding currencies in order to invest
in higher-yielding assets elsewhere.


The low-yielding yen and the Swiss franc fell on Monday, while
currencies from regions with high interest rates benefited, such
as the Australian and New Zealand dollars and the pound.


"Rising US stocks continue to fuel fresh demand for carry
trades," said Rhonda Staskow at Thomson IFR Markets.


Wall Street shares closed higher Monday with the benchmark Dow
Jones industrials up 0.96 points; that followed strong gains in
European and Asian bourses.


Recently, sharp falls on stock markets across the world, combined
with worries about trouble among US sub-prime mortgage lenders,
have sparked some unwinding of carry trades.


But investors have begun the week by resuming the high-risk
investment strategy following firm US inflation data last week
and solid gains in equity markets.


UBS currency analyst Daniel Katzive noted that the current
rebound in carry trade sentiment "could have a bit further to go"
given the thin data calendar this week, though he expects the
recent unwinding to resume in the coming weeks.


Bank of New York analyst Neil Mellor agreed, arguing that the
current volatility in financial markets was not conducive to
carry trade plays, which are essentially a risky trade.


"There is too much volatility at the moment. One of the major
pillars of the carry trade is smooth trading conditions and
currency stability," he said.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2127 Swiss francs
from 1.2070 Friday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9439 dollars after 1.9411 late on
Friday.

