

Google announced on Monday that it would provide free online
communication services such as e-mail and Internet telephone
calling to universities in Kenya and Rwanda.


The Mountain View, California-based Internet search engine giant
said it had partnered with the Rwandan Ministry of Infrastructure
and the Kenya Education Network to deliver hosted Google Apps
software applications.


Students in both African countries as well as Rwandan government
officials will get to use online tools including shared
calendars, instant messaging and word processing, Google said.


"This partnership will be a boost in terms of services offered to
our Rwandan Academic Institutions, allowing them to collaborate,"
said Rwanda's minister of energy and communications, Albert
Butare.


"I believe communication between students and their lecturers
will be enhanced as users throughout the country will now be
using the same state-of-the-art, cutting-edge technology that is
available in other parts of the world."


The National University of Rwanda, Kigali Institute for
Education, and the Kigali Institute for Science and Technology in
Rwanda will get access to Google Apps Education Edition in the
initial phase of the project.


Rwanda's government ministries will use Google Apps Standard
Edition.


Initially, approximately 20,000 users in Rwanda will be able to
use the Google services.


The University of Nairobi's 50,000 students will be the first to
be offered Google Apps for Education in Kenya.


The services will later be extended to 150,000 Kenyan students at
universities across the country.


"For us, universality is crucial because we believe everyone
should have access to the same services wherever they live,
whatever their language and regardless of income," said Google
senior vice president Shona Brown.


"I look forward to working with other African governments to make
life-enhancing services like free e-mail, instant messaging and
PC-to-PC phone calls more widely available across Africa."


In a style considered a defining trait of "Web 2.0," the software
to run the applications is hosted on Google computers, freeing
users of needing to install or maintain programs on their own
machines.

