

Mark Viduka says this year's Asian Cup may be his international
swansong as he considers whether it's time to put his family
ahead of football.


Australia's 31-year-old World Cup skipper said it was getting
increasingly difficult spending time away from his wife Ivana and
their young sons and he was likely to make a decision by the end
of the tournament in July.


"I don't want to leave it lingering, it's not fair on my part to
be like that," Viduka told Tuesday's Sydney Daily Telegraph.


"I'm still thinking and I've got to weigh things up.


"Family is the big issue. Playing internationally is physically
demanding and after the Asian Cup the World Cup qualifiers will
be very demanding and the timing of the games will make it almost
impossible for us (European-based) guys to play.


"FFA's (Football Federation Australia) in a transitional period
now and a lot of things are still up in the air, they're talking
about a new coach.


"I've got two kids and it's not the same, every time I leave them
it's very difficult for them and me.


"All my life it's been about me. My wife and kids are all here
because of me -- my life is football and how long can you keep
doing that?"


Interim national coach Graham Arnold said he is aware of the
Viduka situation and wants to do everything in his power to
convince the Middlesbrough striker not to quit just yet.


Arnold believes in Viduka's current form, he could continue until
the 2010 South Africa World Cup.


But the punishing qualifying schedule -- the Socceroos will play
at least 12 home and away games with eight of those on FIFA
international dates on Wednesdays -- starts early next year.


"If I can have any say in Mark's future I don't want him to
retire," Arnold told the newspaper.


"He's in great form and at just 31, I believe he should take it
one year at a time.


"Hopefully, he will wait until we have a ready-made replacement
because he will be invaluable to our World Cup qualifying
program.


"It's not easy, that's why I would like Mark and some of the
older players to continue because we'll need a big squad in
qualifying for 2010 and their experience will be invaluable.


Viduka and West Ham United defender Lucas Neill are vying for the
Australian captaincy at the Asian Cup, with Viduka to be handed
the armband for Saturday's friendly against China in Guangzhou.

