

The Supreme Court on Monday heard arguments about whether a US
high school was within its rights for suspending a student who
had unfurled a banner proclaiming "Bong Hits 4 Jesus," in one of
the quirkier free speech cases to come before America's top
court.


Student Joseph Frederick drew the ire of his school principal in
Juneau, Alaska, on January 24, 2002, when the then-18 year-old
unveiled the huge banner in front of television cameras as the
Olympic flame passed in front of a crowd.


Principal Deborah Morse who had authorized her students to leave
school to attend the event, was not amused by Frederick's linkage
between Jesus and a bong, a pipe used to smoke marijuana. She
took away the banner and suspended Frederick from school for 10
days.


Frederick took his case to court, arguing that his free speech
rights, protected under the First Amendment, had been violated,
and demanding damages from Morse.


The case eventually made its way to the Supreme Court, where the
justices on Monday seemed disinclined to accept the school's
proposition.


"Getting rid of speech that is inconsistent with the school
policy ... this is a very disturbing argument," said Justice
Samuel Alito, one of the court's more conservative members.


But the court also seemed a bit uncertain about how they might
weigh students' free speech rights had the banner had been
slightly more outrageous or politically partisan.


And to some degree, they seemed outright baffled during court
arguments about the student's defiant act.


"Does anybody know what the statement means?" asked a perplexed
Justice David Souter, during the arguments.


Morse's attorney Kenneth Starr argued that school officials need
to be able to impose discipline, which has the approval of the
National School Board Association.


"This case is ultimately about drugs," said Starr, who rose to
fame as an independent prosecutor during the 1998 Monica Lewinsky
sex scandal, the investigation of US President Bill Clinton and
his relationship with a White House intern.


"To promote drugs is utterly inconsistent with the primary
educational mission of the school," Starr said, arguing that a
school is not obligated to tolerate a message that appears to
take a permissive attitude toward illegal drugs.


The case has drawn heavy hitters, including the powerful American
Civil Liberties Union, which backed Frederick, as did the
American Center for Law and Justice, which specializes in
constitutional law, and which submitted a friend- of-the-court
brief on behalf of the student.


Surprisingly, some religious groups also have taken Frederick's
side, putting President George W. Bush's conservative support
base at odds with the administration.


Meanwhile, the US government has sided with the school. Deputy
solicitor general Edwin Kneedler argued that the banner's
reference to a bong is tantamount to an endorsement of illicit
drug use.


For his part, Frederick, now 23, said he had unfurled the banner
as a "free speech experiment."


The banner is "absurdly funny. It doesn't make any sense at all,"
he said in a recent telephone news conference from China where he
studies and teaches.


"What the banner said was 'look here, I have the right to free
speech and I'm asserting it'," he said.


"I wasn't trying to say anything about religion, I wasn't trying
to say anything about drugs," he said. "The phrase was not
important."


It is to some: T-shirts with the slogan "Bong Hits 4 Jesus" are
selling like hot cakes on the Internet.

