

Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed in Afghanistan
on Monday after 15 days in the hands of the extremist Taliban who
had threatened to kill him.


Top Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah told an Afghan news agency
in an audiotaped message that Mastrogiacomo, 52, was freed in
exchange for five Taliban prisoners, including his own brother.


Italian and Afghan officials would not confirm the details of any
deal.


Mastrogiacomo was captured March 4 with an Afghan interpreter and
a driver, whom the Italian foreign minister confirmed Monday had
been executed.


Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi announced the reporter's
release live on the all-news Italian channel Sky TG 24, saying he
was admitted to a hospital in Lashkar Gah, capital of southern
Helmand province, and was in good health.


"I expect Daniele Mastrogiacomo will come to Kabul very soon,
tomorrow, and immediately after he will be leaving," Italian
ambassador in Kabul, Ettore Francesco Sequi, told reporters.


Sequi said he could not discuss any details of the deal around
the release as this would be subject to an Italian government
investigation.


The Itailan foreign ministry said on its website that "all the
conditions set for his liberation have been met."


The Pajhwok Afghan News agency based in Kabul said it had been
sent a recorded message from Dadullah naming five prisoners for
whom the Italian was exchanged.


Two were heads of the Taliban "cultural wing", Ustad Yasar and
ex-spokesman Latifullah Hakimi, both arrested in 2005.


The others were Mansoor Ahmad, a brother of Dadullah, and two
commanders named Hamdullah and Abdul Ghaffar.


Pahjwok said Mastrogiacomo's interpreter was not released and the
Taliban wanted a separate deal for him. The Italian foreign
ministry initally reported he was free but later retracted the
statement.


A media report Friday cited a purported spokesman for Dadullah as
saying the driver had been executed after being found guilty of
spying for foreign forces.


Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema confirmed he had been
killed in a "brutal" fashion.


Dadullah threatened in an interview with AFP last week to kill
Mastrogiacomo if certain demands were not met by Monday evening,
notably the release of Taliban members in Afghan government
custody.


Afghan President Hamid Karzai had ordered security organisations
to make "all possible efforts" to gain his release, according to
presidential spokesman Karim Rahimi.


Karzai earlier urged Chancellor Angela Merkel to maintain her
troops in Afghanistan despite a threat by Islamic extremists to
kill two German hostages in Iraq unless Germany withdrew from
this country.


"We should not give into blackmail and terror... If we do there
will be no end to it," Karzai said in Berlin.


In Afghanistan, the reported terms of Mastrogiacomo's release met
with concern.


"If it is true that there has been a trade-off of this nature
with that level of prisoner, that would be of significant
concern, particularly in light of the risk it represents not only
for journalists but any foreigner in Afghanistan," a Western
official said on condition of anonymity.


"This is sending completely the wrong message," a foreign
diplomat said, also requesting his name be withheld. "You may as
well stick 1,000 dollar bills on the back of any foreign
journalist heading down south."


"Journalists are precious now," an Afghan security official said.

