

The United States and European Union agreed Monday to withhold
recognition from the new Palestinian unity government grouping
Western-backed moderates and Islamic radicals.


But they left the door open to future relations if the Islamist
movement Hamas that dominates the administration meets conditions
for peace with Israel.


The chances of that darkened Monday when the armed wing of Hamas
claimed responsibility for shooting an Israeli near the Gaza
Strip, while Egypt announced it had arrested another Hamas
activist plotting a suicide attack on Israel.


Following two-and-a-half hours of talks here, the top US and
European diplomats maintained their insistence that the
Palestinian government recognize Israel's right to exist and
renounce violence as a condition for recognition and an end to a
year-long aid boycott.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also held a conference
call with her European Union, United Nations and Russian
counterparts about the unity government that groups the Western-
backed Fatah party of president Mahmud Abbas and Hamas.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the four parties,
known as the Quartet of Middle East mediators, would release a
statement on the Palestinian government, probably Tuesday.


"I have to say that this government does not comply fully with
the principles" laid down by the Quartet, EU foreign policy chief
Javier Solana said after meeting with Rice and German Foreign
Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier.


Hamas, which dominates the new government, failed to fully meet
the conditions when it unveiled its governing program Saturday,
though it did agree to respect past peace agreements reached
between Abbas and Israel -- a stance Palestinians say amounts to
implicit recognition of the Jewish state.


Abbas, a moderate who the United States and Israel describe as a
"partner for peace," has publicly pleaded with the Quartet to
lift its aid boycott in response to the new government, but to no
avail.


"We don't consider that good enough," said a senior US official
in response.


Rice also expressed dismay over a declaration by the government's
prime minister, Ismail Haniya of Hamas, reaffirming Palestinians'
"right to resistance" against Israeli occupation.


"I am not going to try to interpret what the right of resistance
means, but I'll tell you it does not sound very good to me when
one talks about 'all forms of resistance,'" she said.


EU External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner
dismissed suggestions Washington was adopting a harsher tone than
its Western partners.


"The Quartet confirmed what I always have been saying, we will
judge the government by its actions also," she told AFP in
Washington.


While refusing to lift the aid and diplomatic embargo imposed
when Hamas took sole control of the government in elections early
last year, the Americans and Europeans said that could change
depending on the actions of the new regime.


"It's much more important what they do than what they say at this
point in time," Solana said.


McCormack added: "We are going to watch what they do and say".


What was on show Monday, though, offered little ground for hope.


The armed wing of Hamas announced that it had shot and wounded an
Israeli electricity worker outside Gaza in an attack "against a
Zionist usurper."


And Egyptian police revealed they had arrested a 22-year-old
Hamas member planning a suicide attack on the Israeli Red Sea
resort of Taba.


Israeli government spokeswoman Miri Eisin said Monday's shooting
was proof Hamas had not renounced terror.


"Israel hopes that world pays attention to the head of the PA
(Palestinian Authority) government and Hamas chief Ismail Haniya
and acts of terror," she said.


Rice is due to leave for Israel and the Palestinian territories
later this week and Abbas's decision to join the Hamas-led unity
government has complicated efforts she launched late last year to
revive Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations.


Israel has ruled out having any contacts with the new government,
even though it will still have limited dealings with Abbas.


In a rare rift with its Israeli ally, the United States said it
was open to dealing with non-Hamas "individuals" in the
government, possibly including the independent finance minister,
Salam Fayyad.

