

Zimbabwe's government brushed off fresh criticism Monday over its
crackdown on the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC),
dismissing it as further evidence of mischief-making by the West.


After a senior opposition figure trying to leave the country was
beaten so badly he needed hospital treatment, a fresh round of
condemnations against President Robert Mugabe's regime came from
the European Union, Britain and the United States.


However Harare again accused its critics of stirring up trouble
with "mischievous" and "political" statements, as well as siding
with the opposition by failing to denounce attacks on the
security forces last week.


On Monday Foreign Minister Simbarashe Mumbengegwi called in eight
western ambassadors and threatened them with expulsion on charges
of interfering in Zimbabwean affairs.


"We will not tolerate interference in our affairs. Zimbabwe's
tolerance is being stretched to the limit," a ministry statement
quoted him as saying.


Junior information minister Bright Matonga told AFP: "We find it
disturbing in that we are not hearing anything on the three women
police officers who are struggling for their lives in hospital
and about three police officers who were badly beaten up by the
MDC."


Matonga's comments came after the German presidency of the EU
expressed its outrage at Sunday's attack on MDC lawmaker Nelson
Chamisa who was picked up while preparing to fly to Brussels.


Chamisa is in hospital under police guard, suffering from
ruptured kidneys. Allegedly beaten over the head with an iron
rod, he learned Monday that he would not lose his eye as
initially feared, his spokesman William Bango told AFP.


A statement from Berlin said: "The EU presidency was outraged and
deeply concerned by the news of the arrest and brutal treatment
of the opposition MP Nelson Chamisa."


Meanwhile the head of an MDC breakaway faction, Arthur Mutambara,
was released Monday after being re-arrested Saturday as he tried
to fly to South Africa. A high court judge said the arrest was
not endorsed by the attorney general's office.


Mutambara was first arrested alongside chief MDC leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and dozens of other activists who were severely beaten
as they tried to stage an anti-government rally on March 11.


The United States said it would hold Mugabe personally
responsible for beatings sustained by opposition members.


"The United States condemns the government of Zimbabwe's
continued attacks on the political opposition, including
additional arrests, beatings and refusal to allow travel for
necessary medical treatment," said State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman told a
press briefing Monday that African countries must take the lead
in dealing with Zimbabwe.


"The important thing in terms of influencing events on the ground
is that this is seen as the Africans in the lead rather than us,"
he said.


This message was reinforced by African ministers meeting for
talks in Oslo.


Nigerian Foreign Minister Joy Ogwu told AFP that "continued
dialogue, continued negotiations" were needed.


He added: "Regarding economic sanctions, it is important that
states that are external to Africa do not take actions that are
inimical to the interests of Zimbabwe and Africa."


Tanzanian Foreign Minister Bernard Membe said: "We are very
optimistic that if this issue is left to ourselves, Africans, we
can certainly resolve the problems taking place in Africa."


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has been steadily mounting amid an economic meltdown with
inflation standing at 1,730 percent and four out of five people
out of work.


Mugabe however has remained defiant in the face of virulent
criticism, blaming the unrest on the MDC and its critics.

