

A Kenyan court on Monday decided to discount the testimonies of
three FBI witnesses who had repeatedly failed to show up for an
inquest into the 2000 killing of an American priest.


The Nairobi court ruled not to wait any longer for testimony from
two FBI special agents and a medical examiner after they on
Monday failed to appear in court for the fourth time.


"This court cannot be used to run on a wild goose chase. It will
no longer adjourn for their testimony. It won't bother itself
with their evidence," magistrate Maureen Odero ruled.


The three witnesses, who apologised for their absence through the
US embassy, had been expected to reveal evidence from an FBI
probe into the murder of Father John Anthony Kaiser, whose body
was found with gunshot wounds on a roadside in Kenya's central
Rift Valley on August 24, 2000.


Mbuthi Gathenji, a lawyer for the Mill Hill mission Kaiser worked
for, lamented the FBI agents' absence, claiming "the significance
of their testimony cannot be underrated."


Speculation was rampant that Kaiser, a virulent critic of former
Kenyan president Daniel arap Moi, had been the subject of a
government hit, but forensic experts from the FBI tentatively
concluded a year after his death that the 67-year-old priest
might have committed suicide.


At the time, critics said the FBI probe was tarnished by
Washington's desire for warm relations with Nairobi and its
eagerness for assistance in the investigation into a deadly Al
Qaeda-linked bombing of the US embassy in Kenya.


Previous witnesses have alleged that Kaiser had frosty ties with
two powerful Moi-era ministers -- Nicholas Biwott and Julius
Sunkuli.


They said the bad blood had stemmed from Kaiser's claims that the
pair were involved in deadly land clashes in the early 1990s that
left nearly 2,000 people dead and displaced tens of thousands.


In addition, witnesses have said Kaiser crossed swords with
another former powerful cabinet minister, whom he accused of
sexual impropriety, election irregularities and a variety of
other wrongdoings.

