

The European Union on Monday strongly backed the UN's chief
mediator for Kosovo, saying he was doing a "very good job"
despite blistering criticism from Russia.


The EU's External Relations Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner
said in an interview here that United Nations chief mediator
Martti Ahtisaari would go ahead and present his proposals to the
Security Council.


Hours earlier, Russia's UN envoy Vitaly Churkin confirmed Russia
wanted Ahtisaari replaced and accused Joachim Rucker, the UN
special representative for Kosovo, of "preaching for
independence" of the Albanian-majority Serbian province during
Security Council consultations.


Ferrero-Waldner said Europe was happy with Ahtisaari's
performance.


"We think has done a very good job in a very difficult and
complex issue," Waldner said.


"Ahtisaari will present his proposals and then this will go to
the Security Council," she said, adding it was too early to talk
of possible Russian veto of any subsequent council action.


Her comments mirrored the US position on Ahtisaari, who is due to
submit his final recommendations on Serbia to the council in the
next two weeks.


"I think Mr. Ahtisaari is doing a very good job with a very tough
issue," said State Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


Last week, Ahtisaari warned that "the potential of negotiations
is exhausted."


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov suggested at the weekend
that if Ahtisaari "has exhausted his resources, we can surely
find someone else to handle this issue."


Russian criticism came as a UN-brokered plan for the future
status of the disputed Serbian province appeared in disarray.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials have failed to agree on
future self-rule for Kosovo after more than 13 months of UN-
sponsored talks.


The Ahtisaari plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-
governance to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to
break away from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia, and by its
traditional ally Russia.

