

Andrew Flintoff has denied having a drink problem after losing
the England vice- captaincy at the World Cup after a night of
boozy antics saw him dropped for the match against Canada.


Flintoff, the star of England's 2005 Ashes success, was one of
six players fined following a late-night drinking session after
the six-wicket defeat by New Zealand on Friday.


His alcohol-fuelled exploits then culminated in him being helped
to shore after falling off a pedalo.


"Sometimes I have the capacity to go a bit further than maybe I
should do. It's something I'm aware of and it's something I'm
saying won't happen again," Flintoff told reporters.


"I'm getting older and I've got more responsibilities as a player
and a person," the 29-year-old married father of two added.


"It was foolish what I did and I'm embarrassed about it - I can't
apologise enough to everyone it's affected over these past few
days."


He added: "I'm not a teenager any more, and I've got
responsibilities on and off the field."


Flintoff has received several warnings about his off-field
behaviour in the past, most recently while captaining England
during their 5-0 Ashes thrashing in Australia when Michael
Vaughan was injured.


But he said being dropped meant he would, unlike previous
occasions, make good on his promises to change his ways.


"Being left out for a game for England and experiencing these
feelings I've experienced for the past couple of days, I never
want them again."


Flintoff was one of six players - the others were James Anderson,
Ian Bell, Jon Lewis, Paul Nixon and Liam Plunkett - fined for
staying out drinking at a nightclub near England's team hotel.


And while Flintoff - who after Monday's news conference was
cheered and applauded by England fans staying at the hotel - said
he wasn't about to give up drink, he vowed to be more selective
when it came to alcohol.


"The thing that happened in the nightclub was the wrong place,
wrong time," Flintoff explained.


"I'm not going to say I'm going to have an alcohol-free trip and
a glass of wine with my dinner is one thing and the events of
Friday night is another.


"It's not going to happen again, I can assure everyone of that.
It's not doing anybody any favours, not myself, not the team, not
anybody.


"The severity of what has happened has hit me hard. I don't mean
to hurt anyone, but sometimes I can get a little carried away and
it's no secret I like a drink."


Flintoff, who is available for England's next World Cup match,
against Kenya, on Saturday, said he couldn't wait to make amends
on the field after sitting out the side's uninspiring 51-run win
over minnows Canada on Sunday.


"I'm going to throw myself into this World Cup as I have done
already apart from Friday. From my point of view the stakes have
gone up a little bit more. I'm desperate to redeem myself."


Sportsmen have been known to have a drink to help them relax off
the field but Flintoff stressed: "Playing cricket at the highest
level there is presure involved and I don't want to get into
having to drink to release the pressure."


As well as the six players, it emerged Monday that two members of
England's backroom staff, bowling coach Kevin Shine and spin
mentor Jeremy Snape, had been involved in the drinking session.

