

Over three months 2nd Platoon had found more roadside bombs than
any other US unit in Iraq. This week, as the war rolled on into
its fifth year, a roadside bomb found them.


Luckily in the 48 months since a US-led invasion force surged
across the Kuwaiti border, the US military has learned many hard
lessons in modern guerrilla warfare; today the army's Humvee
jeeps are clad in tough armour plating.


As the blast erupted from the garbage strewn median, shrapnel
peppered the lead vehicle, shattered the outer layer of its
bullet proof window glass and shredded three of its thick all-
terrain tyres.


"Holy shit!" cried the driver of the second jeep. "Keep going,
keep going," shouted platoon commander Lieutenant Scott Flanigan,
as he plunged into the cloud of dust and smoke which had
swallowed the first vehicle.


"We're good!" called out a voice on the radio. "We're rolling
through."


The soldiers from 2nd platoon, Baker Company, 2-12 Infantry
Battalion, were shaken but safe and the convoy pulled into a
sidestreet, where troops from the other Humvees kept watch as the
damaged vehicle was fixed to a tow rope.


Improvised explosive devices, or IEDs -- a catch all term for a
variety of makeshift booby-traps rigged to detonate as vehicles
pass -- have become the signature weapon of the Iraq conflict,
and 2nd Platoon's bread and butter.


For the last five months, Baker Company has patrolled Dura, a
mainly Sunni area of southern Baghdad which was once the city's
plushest suburb and is now a bleak slum plagued with roving bands
of insurgent gunmen.


Before the US invasion in 2003, Saddam Hussein's generals and
Baath party officials lived in its imposing mansions and tree
lined streets.


Now burst sewers run over, trash piles up in rubble strewn
streets and crowds of unemployed youths play football on waste
ground, glancing up sullenly as US and Iraqi government trucks
roll cautiously past.


Insurgent groups find many recruits among the resentful
population -- which is deeply suspicious of the mainly Shiite
police force -- and intimidate families trying to rebuild their
lives.


"Dura's a horrible place, and it used to be the most beautiful
area of Baghdad," said Lieutenant James Darnly, architect of
Baker Company's efforts to make contact with the people of the
area.


"The bulk of the population is unemployed. They have the normal
fears that any aristocratic class would have that had been
brought so low."


With the war dragging on and casualties mounting on all sides,
the US military has adopted a new "surge strategy".


Thousands of new US troops are pouring into Baghdad in order to
secure neighbourhoods and give Iraqi communities time and space
to resolve their differences politically.


If this is to work, it has to work in hotspots like Dura.


All across Baghdad, the US units which were once housed in huge
forward operating bases on the outskirts of the city are now
moving into the streets and building fortified combat outposts in
former no-go zones.


The new commander of US troops in Iraq, General David Petraeus,
believes these ink spots of US influence can spread as his troops
belatedly win the confidence of a war-weary population.


Baker Company's mission on Monday, however, also served to
highlight the many dangerous problems the new strategy will still
have to face.


Initially, 2nd Platoon, fresh from its triumphant stint hunting
IEDs and IED gangs in one of the most dangerous areas of Dura,
was to take to the streets of another neighbourhood to try out a
plan dubbed "Close Encounters".


Before setting out, Flanigan told his men that Darnly's idea was
that they would carry out non-agressive searches of a handful of
houses in order to make contact with people who might help them
understand the district.


If all went well, and there was little resistance, footballs and
sweets could be handed out to children and new relationships
forged.


The plan changed before the Humvees even reached the gates of
Camp Falcon.


New instructions were radioed in for the unit to link up with a
patrol of Iraqi National Police, a Shiite-led interior ministry
force that many of Dura's Sunnis view with fear and hatred.


Soon, the convoy was called to a police checkpoint which had come
under fire. As they pulled up, Iraqi police -- IPs -- were
pouring machinegun fire down a side- street where a fleeing
gunman had dumped his weapon.


"That's IPs," sighed one US soldier, shaking his head. "They come
under fire so they light up the whole alley."


US and Iraqi troops took up firing positions on rooftops and,
once they were sure that the car which the suspect had been using
as cover was not rigged with explosives, they moved in to seize
the abandoned Kalashnikov.


Searches of neighbouring buildings were inconclusive and no-one
was arrested, so the patrol moved on.


Shortly afterwards as the troops drove down a long residential
street, the bomb exploded, its thunderclap preceded by a
sickening shockwave and followed by hail of metal shards and
pulverised concrete.


The troops were forced to drag the damaged Humvee back to Falcon
on its punctured tyres -- its crew and its footballs intact.

