

Long-awaited opening arguments in the fraud trial of media baron
Conrad Black were delayed for a full day on Monday following
objections from his lawyers.


There were rumors around the courthouse of a problem with one of
jurors but court officials would not disclose the reason for the
delay.


Opening arguments are now scheduled for Tuesday morning.


Black and three associates are accused of diverting some 84
million dollars from his huge empire, Hollinger International,
which held such respected titles as the London Daily Telegraph,
Jerusalem Post and Chicago Sun-Times.


Black's attorney Ed Genson asked the judge for more time to
prepare after officials announced over the weekend that a
longtime Black associate, David Radler, had agreed to pay 28.7
million dollars to settle a fraud probe by US regulators and 21.2
million dollars to settle a civil suit by the Sun Times Media
Group, the renamed Hollinger International.


Genson questioned the timing of the Sun Times announcement and
the statements made to the press by chairman Gordon Paris, who is
scheduled to be the first witness for the prosecution Tuesday.


"I've never seen a settlement on a Sunday," he said, adding that
he was troubled by how Paris was "bragging about the money these
people collected."


Genson also asked the court to poll jurors individually to see if
they had read or heard about Radler's settlement. Radler, a
Canadian, is expected to serve as a key witness against Black as
the trial unfolds.


Judge Amy St. Eve said she thought Genson had had plenty of time
to prepare his opening arguments as he was aware that Radler had
already pleaded guilty to criminal charges in a deal with
prosecutors late last year.


She did however, ask prosecutors to request a copy of the
Securities and Exchange Commission documents and hand them over
to the defense team.


St. Eve also allowed Genson to question the jurors during a
meeting in her chambers. A court official eventually told hoards
of waiting media gathered to cover the trial that St. Eve had
called a recess until 1:00 pm (1800 GMT.)


Black is accused of treating his vast newspaper empire as a
personal fiefdom and faces a maximum of 101 years in jail on
charges of fraud, obstruction of justice, racketeering and tax
evasion.


While the size of the alleged fraud is relatively small -- Black
and his associates are accused of diverting about 84 million
dollars from primarily institutional shareholders -- Black's
larger-than-life reputation has created a media frenzy.


The trial promises to provide juicy details of the life of Black,
a larger-than- life personality known for his arrogance,
intelligence and decision to give up his Canadian citizenship so
he could become a British Lord.


And it is set to feature a parade of celebrity witnesses, which
could include entrepreneur Donald Trump and former US Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger, who sat on the board of Black's company
Hollinger International.


More than 100 reporters from Canada, Britain, Ireland, Australia
and the United States are expected to haunt the halls of the
towering federal courthouse in Chicago for the coming weeks.


Many of them work for papers Black once owned and was reputed to
have run with an iron fist.


Also charged in the case are Jack Boultbee, the chief financial
officer of Toronto-based subsidiary Hollinger Inc; Peter
Atkinson, general counsel for Hollinger Inc; and Mark Kipnis,
corporate counsel for Hollinger International.


All four men have pleaded not guilty.

