

West Indies will chase 203 to beat Zimbabwe to book their place
in the Super Eights of the World Cup.


Zimbabwe, sent in to bat on a hard, true Sabina Park pitch under
partly cloudy skies, were indebted to half-centuries from Sean
Williams and Brendon Taylor, as well as a late cameo from Elton
Chugumbura for getting them to a respectable total.


Left-hander Williams hit an undefeated top score of 70 from 88
balls and Taylor gathered 50 from 121 balls in a vital stand of
83 for the fifth wicket to lead a Zimbabwe recovery.


When Taylor backed up too far and was run out by Dwayne Bravo's
throw from point to bowler Marlon Samuels in the 41st over,
Chigumbura arrived and gave the Zimbabweans a late boost.


He collected five fours in the closing overs to gather 30 not out
from 29 balls and share an unbroken stand of 60 with Williams.


West Indies had early success, when new ball bowlers Jerome
Taylor and Daren Powell bowled both Zimbabweans openers Friday
Kasteni and Vusimuzi Sibanda inside the first three overs.


Taylor added the wicket of Justice Chibhabha also bowled for 12
in the 10th over before Dwayne Smith had Stuart Matsikenyeri
caught at mid-on for 16.


West Indies are playing an unchanged 11, but Zimbabwe made three
changes, bringing Kasteni, Tawanda Mupariwa, and Anthony Ireland
into their side for Terrence Duffin, Gary Brent and Edward
Rainsford.


West Indies won the opening match of the World Cup against
Pakistan by 54 runs last Tuesday, and Zimbabwe tied with Ireland
last Thursday.


Ireland provisionally top Group D with three points - one more
than West Indies and two ahead of Zimbabwe (both with a match in
hand) - leaving Pakistan at the bottom of the table with no
points and out of the tournament.


Zimbabwe contest their final match on Wednesday against Pakistan,
and West Indies and Ireland close the group stage on Friday.


The two sides observed a minute's silence in memory of the late
Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer before the start of the match.


The 58-year-old Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel room
on Sunday, and pronounced dead a few hours later in the
University Hospital of the West Indies in the Jamaica capital, a
day after Pakistan's early exit from the competition.


World Cup organisers have announced that flags at the ground will
be flown at half mast, and teams and match officials will wear
black armbands in tribute to Woolmer.

