

Stand-in Scotland captain Ryan Watson will remind South African
counterpart Graeme Smith of how he used to do the drinks duty and
hold his bag during their school days together.


"Believe it or not, he used to fetch drinks for me and carry my
bags. I don't know if he'll do that tomorrow, but I'll ask him,"
Watson said ahead of the match against the Boks at Warner Park on
Tuesday.


Watson will replace regular captain Craig Wright who had returned
home to attend the funeral of a family member.


The 30-year-old Watson, born in Harare, Zimbabwe, played his
early cricket in South Africa and goes by the nickname of Rhino.


"I went to the same school as Graeme Smith, he was a bit younger
than me, and we played club cricket together, so we've got a bit
of a history and family friends."


Smith said he has been teasing Watson for the last two weeks.


"He captained the club side I played in so it will be weird to
walk out on the pitch and spin a coin with a South African. We've
been teasing him quite a bit since Montego Bay," Smith said of
Watson.


Watson believed Smith had progressed well.


"At school, he was limited in terms of his strokeplay, he has
progressed a long way with that. Mentally he was far better than
anyone I saw as a young kid.


"He got hundreds as a 15-year-old against Premier League attacks,
so everyone knew he was going to be a special player and he's
proved that."


When asked if he was as hard nosed a captain as his school mate,
Watson replied in negative: "I try to put a lot of onus back on
the players, let them set their own fields and give them
responsibility.


"That's my style and I hope it works tomorrow."


Watson said his team would try to be up to the task against the
world number one team.


"They are a quality side and showed they are not going to be
complacent against the minor sides. Herschelle Gibbs and Mark
Boucher look in good touch so it's a tough challenge."


Scotland lost their first match to defending champions Australia
by 202 runs, a defeat Watson put down to a poor performance late
on in the Australian innings.


"We were poor at the death against Australia, by our own
standards, and that's something we've worked on. That's a crucial
part of the game."

