

Australian sprinter Libby Lenton has identified developing a
bigger backside as a new training edge to retrieve her 100-metres
freestyle world record from German Britta Steffen.


Lenton gets her showdown with Steffen underway next week at the
World Swimming Championships as she looks to regain the world
mark she held twice in 2004 and last year.


When Steffen surprised the swimming community with her world
record of 53.30sec at the European championships in Budapest last
August, the Lenton camp realised more had to be done to combat
the German threat.


After the national trials in December, Lenton did some physical
testing that revealed a weakness in her gluteal muscles that was
affecting her leg strength, and therefore her kick.


Her coach Stephan Widmer switched to a new training regime
including pilates exercises and an altered gym program to
strengthen the muscles in preparation for the world titles.


"We gave her a bum," Widmer told Tuesday's The Australian
newspaper. "We improved the strength level and have applied that
in kicking sets and she has improved in her kick strength and
speed."


Widmer said they did the initial testing in a bid to find a new
training edge for Lenton after Steffen's world record swim.


"We are always looking to find something else, to try something
new," Widmer said.


He said Lenton's improved kick would help to stabilise her stroke
so her technique was more consistent, which would help both her
overall speed, and particularly her speed towards the finish of
the race.


Lenton is known for her early speed but has been vulnerable to
competitors with stronger finishes, including Athens Olympic
champion and teammate Jodie Henry in the 100m freestyle and world
champion Jessicah Schipper in the 100m butterfly.


Lenton is confident that she will be better able to withstand
such late challenges with a more powerful kick.


"The kick and leg strength was one of my weaknesses, but I have
developed my glutes a bit more and that's going to help in my
kick strength and fitness," Lenton told the newspaper. "The kick
is a huge move forward for me."


Widmer expects her boosted leg strength to benefit both her
freestyle and butterfly events.

