

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was to have a private
dinner with her Italian counterpart Massimo Alema Monday, her
spokesman said, playing down reports of rising tensions between
the two allies.


"I think it's just going to be the two of them," State Department
spokesman Sean McCormack said, adding that no public statements
were expected after the dinner.


Asked about signs of discord between Italy and the United States
in recent months, McCormack insisted that ties remained strong.


"We have a great relationship with Italy and this government. We
work together well on issues ranging from Iran to Afghanistan and
fighting the war on terror," he said.


"So, in any relationship, you're going to have ups and downs. But
we have a fundamentally good and sound relationship with Italy,
and consider them a close friend and ally."


Last month, the US ambassador in Rome, Ronald Spogli, sparked a
diplomatic row by signing an open letter, along with counterparts
from Britain, Canada, the Netherlands, Australia and Romania,
calling on Italy to maintain its troops in Afghanistan.


Alema blasted the move as "inopportune external interference."
Prodi's government has said Italy's 1,800 troops will remain in
Afghanistan, over the objections of greens and communists in his
coalition.


Other issues include the case of an American marine who shot dead
Italian secret service agent Nicola Calipari near Baghdad in
March 2005.


Last month an Italian judge ruled that the marine, Mario Lozano,
should stand trial in April for the fatal shooting, while the
United States insisted that he had followed proper rules of
engagement.


In another prominent legal case, Italy said on Thursday it would
wait for a ruling by the country's constitutional court before
requesting the extradition of 26 CIA agents accused of abducting
an Egyptian imam off the streets of Milan in 2003.


Italian prosecutors last month ordered 26 Americans to stand
trial for kidnapping Osama Mustafa Hassan, better known as Abu
Omar, on February 17, 2003, and taking him to a high-security
prison outside Cairo, where he claims he was tortured.

