

Australia's opposition Labor Party has surged to a 20-year high
in opinion polls after a series of scandals forced two government
ministers to resign, according to a survey released Wednesday.


With an election looming later this year, the Newspoll published
in The Australian newspaper showed Labor's primary vote at 52
percent, its highest reading since 1987.


Prime Minister John Howard's conservative coalition was trailing
on 34 percent and Howard's personal rating as preferred prime
minister slumped to 36 percent, 13 points behind Labor leader
Kevin Rudd.


Labor's lead over Howard's coalition stretched to 61 percent
against 39, or 22 points, on a two-party preferred basis, which
strips out the influence of minor parties.


The poll of 1,158 voters was taken on March 16 to 18, coinciding
with last Friday's resignation of minister for ageing Santo
Santoro in a share-trading scandal, the second ministerial
casualty in a fortnight.


Howard admitted his government was hurting, but said it was a
long time before the next election, due to be held before the end
of the year.


"We want something like this like a hole in the head, I'd be
foolish to pretend otherwise," he told ABC television late
Tuesday. "I am angry, I feel let down."


But Rudd, who took over as Labor leader last December, played
down the poll, likening his party's position to that of a climber
reaching base camp at Mount Everest.


"We are climbing up but you know what, I still see this huge
mountain with a lot of snow on top and I see a very clever
politician already up there and his name is Mr. Howard," Rudd
told reporters.


The government had tried to undermine Rudd's credibility over
three meetings he held in 2005 with Brian Bourke, a disgraced
former state premier who has been jailed twice and now operates
as a lobbyist.


But the mud-slinging backfired when it emerged the government's
Human Services Minister Ian Campbell had also met Bourke,
prompting Howard to force his resignation.


Santoro then quit last week after failing to declare 72
shareholdings, some of which related directly to his portfolio.


Labor has had its own casualty in the debate over ministerial
accountability, with shadow attorney-general Kelvin Thompson
resigning earlier this month after it emerged he gave a glowing
reference to a fugitive mobster.

