

Fossil hunters have found the remains of small dinosaurs that
made their home in a burrow, a finding which implies the reptiles
that once ruled the world could exploit a much wider habitat than
thought.


The dinosaurs, whose fossilised bones and underground den were
found in southwestern Montana in the United States, have been
dubbed Oryctodromeus cubicularis, a mix of Greek and Latin that
means "digging runner of the lair."


The soil where the remarkable discovery was made has been dated
to the Mid- Cretaceous, a hothouse period that ran from about 135
to 115 million years ago.


"(It is) the first trace and body fossil evidence of burrowing
behaviour in a dinosaur," the trio of US and Japanese researchers
say.


Their paper appears on Wednesday in Proceedings of the Royal
Society B, a journal of Britain's de-facto academy of sciences.


The burrow, long filled with sediment, comprised a sloping,
sinuous tunnel more than two metres (6.5 feet) long and about 70
centimetres (28 inches) wide, and somewhat similar to holes made
today by striped hyenas and puffins.


It ended in a chamber, where the skeletal remains of an adult and
two juveniles were found. Their snout, shoulder girdle and pelvis
have the telltale shape of bones found in animals capable of
gouging out and shifting soil.


Based on the preserved vertebrae, the adult would measure around
2.1 metres (6.8 feet) tip to tail, with a weight of between 22
and 32 kilos (48-70 pounds), which made it small on the dinosaur
scale.


The authors, led by David Varricchio of Montana State University,
say burrowing would help small dinos survive in extreme climates.


Unlike mammals, reptiles cannot regulate their own body
temperature. Thus, in deserts, a burrow would provide shelter
from extreme heat, while in polar regions and chilly mountains,
it would preserve warmth.


The burrowers may have survived, at least for a while, the
twilight of the dinosaurs, the authors speculate.


The prevailing theory is that this happened around 65 million
years ago, when a massive asteroid or comet struck the Earth.
That kicked up a thick veil of dust and ash which cooled the
planet, killing off the kinds of vegetation on which the dinos
depended.


The end of the Cretaceous bequeathed the planet to avian, or
bird-like, dinosaurs and other species that either thrived
without the old predators around or found a niche in a suddenly-
changed climate.

