

Bob Woolmer's tragic death, Inzamam-ul-Haq's retirement as a one-
day player and the team's disastrous World Cup has left Pakistan
with a host of problems as they seek to regain their place as a
serious cricket force.


The squad arrived in the Caribbean against a background of
turmoil.


Last August's infamous forfeited Test match against England and
the doping scandal which engulfed Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif
had already eaten away at Pakistan's credibility.


The humiliating World Cup exit at the hands of Ireland's part-
timers and the sad loss of Woolmer have left the game's rulers
with plenty to ponder.


Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Naseem Ashraf, whose job is
also on the line, has promised a complete overhaul of the sport.


"We maintained a short-term option for the World Cup, but now a
comprehensive new structure and plan will be launched for the
development of Pakistan cricket," Ashraf said.


However, Ashraf, a former first-class cricketer who took over in
October last year, has been accused of failing to come up with a
new PCB constitution.


"Pakistan cricket has been run on an ad-hoc basis since 1999 and
an ad-hoc set up is a cancer for any set up. We had a ad-hoc body
when we fared poorly in the last World Cup and now we see abysmal
results in 2007," said Sirajul Islam Bukhari, secretary of the
Karachi Cricket Association.


Former captain Imran Khan has been critical of a process which
allows the Pakistan president, who is also the patron of the PCB,
to appoint the head of the cricket body.


"The recent mess in Pakistan cricket is to be blamed on the
patron who appoints the cricket chief," said Khan.


Since the Oval forfeit and Inzamam's ban for the Champions Trophy
held in India in October, controversies have shrouded Pakistan
cricket.


Younis Khan refused to lead the team for the Trophy, saying he
did not want to be a dummy captain. Mohammad Yousuf replaced him.


The following day the then-PCB chairman Shahryar Khan was forced
to resign and barely hours after taking charge Ashraf reinstated
Younis as captain.


Two days later, Pakistan cricket was plunged into a doping crisis
as their spearheads Shoaib Akhtar and Mohammad Asif tested
positive for nandrolone.


Akhtar was banned for two years and Asif for one year but their
bans were controversially lifted on appeal, a decision widely
criticised by the cricket world and challenged by the World Anti-
Doping Agency (WADA).


Pakistan named the doping tainted duo in their 15-man World Cup
in the hope that they would clear second dope tests. They were
finally withdrawn hours before the team's departure for the
Caribbean on fitness grounds.


"The whole build-up was poor and created fears that Pakistan
might not do well in the World Cup. Now heads must roll to bring
Pakistan cricket back on track," said former captain and chief
executive Ramiz Raja.


Pakistan has time to pick up the pieces.


They do not have a major assignment until the Twenty20 World Cup
in South Africa in September this year. They also host South
Africa in October before welcoming Australia early next year.


Younis Khan is likley to take over as captain from Inzamam and
Pakistan has depth of talent in reserves to get back on top of
their game.


However, finding a new coach could prove difficult.


"Bob's greatest strength was that the atmosphere in the changing
room was harmonious. The team was well knitted together and that
was to his credit," said Imran.


There were reports that the PCB has contacted former New Zealand
opener and ex- Indian coach John Wright to take the job after the
World Cup.

