

South Africa pushed on Monday for a 90-day freeze of Iran's
uranium enrichment in exchange for a simultaneous suspension of
UN sanctions, which the Security Council is looking to toughen on
Tehran.


The 90-day, simultaneous suspension was contained in a series of
South African amendments, a copy of which was obtained by AFP, to
a draft resolution agreed by six major powers last week and
toughening UN sanctions slapped on Iran in December for its
nuclear defiance.


"The 90-day period of grace provided to Iran would allow for a
de-escalation of tensions and create an opportunity for Iran and
the other parties involved to resume negotiations toward a long-
term solution," the South African text said.


"Sanctions should never be adopted in haste when other tracks for
the peaceful resolution of a situation should be addressed," the
text said.


The idea of a simultaneous 90-day suspension of Iran's uranium
enrichment and of Security Council sanctions against the Islamic
Republic, was first proposed by Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the
Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency, earlier this
year.


The new sanctions draft bans Iran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions on the Islamic Republic and expands a
list of officials and companies targeted for financial and travel
restrictions because of their alleged links with Iran's sensitive
nuclear and ballistic missile programs.


But the South African amendments would gut much of the text, by
deleting the weapons ban and many of the financial sanctions,
according to Western diplomats.


They would also drop several names of companies and individuals
added to the list of those subjected to an assets freeze or
travel restrictions, including Bank Sepah, Iranian Revolutionary
Guards Corps (IRGC) entities and key officers of the elite IRGC.


"I don't think that these amendments are consistent with the
approach the Security Council is following," said French
Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere, whose country is one of the
council's five permanent members.


"We hope that there will be a consensus (on the draft), that
South Africa will understand and join us on this approach, which
is an approach of gradual pressure, putting pressure," he added.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program in the
early 1990s during its transition from white minority rule to a
democratic state, has consistently defended Iran's right to
enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


De La Sabliere expressed hope that "we will be able to adopt the
resolution by the end of the week."


As it stands, the text would give Iran 60 days to comply with
repeated UN demands or face "further appropriate measures,"
meaning economic sanctions but no military action, under Article
41 of the UN Charter.


Meanwhile his South African counterpart said the co-sponsors of
the draft resolution requested informal talks for Tuesday "on
other related matters, not to negotiate" the text.


"The negotiations (on the draft among the council's 15 members)
will start on Wednesday," he added. The sanctions package was
agreed last week by envoys of the council's five permanent
members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
-- plus Germany.


Meanwhile the United States announced Monday it had granted visas
to Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and
bodyguards so he can address the Security Council when it votes
on the new sanctions resolution.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Iran made an
additional request on Monday for visas for 33 air crew and those
were also expected to be granted, he said.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, meanwhile, discussed
preparations for the new UN sanctions vote with her counterparts
from the European Union and Germany.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only. Iran warned against tougher sanctions on
Monday.


"Adopting new resolutions by the Security Council ... will face
Iran's proportionate response," Abbas Araghchi, deputy foreign
minister in legal and international affairs, said in a meeting
with foreign ambassadors.


The United States says it wants a diplomatic solution to the
nuclear standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option.

