

Countries liable to suffer extreme weather patterns in the face
of global warming must set in place early warning systems and
bolster efforts at disaster prevention, meteorologists said on
Monday.


Money spent on weather forecasting technology could bring
sevenfold savings in dealing with the consequences of climate
change, the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) told an
international conference in Madrid.


"Over the last 20 years, we have seen a significant decrease in
the number of casualties. The reason is an enormous improvement
in the quality of the early warning provision," said WMO
secretary general Michel Jarraud.


He explained the conference sought to draw attention to the
benefits of better use of available data and that money spent on
reinforcing prevention technology "is not expenditure but a very
profitable investment".


Jarraud was speaking at the opening of a four-day conference,
hosted by the Spanish government, on how to improve the use of
meteorological data and on the social and economic benefits of
services provided by meteorologists and hydrologists.


"We want to improve further the quality of the early warning, to
give the early warning as long as possible in advance and to make
sure that (such systems) are properly integrated in national
disaster prevention plans," said Jarraud.


"In developing countries the problem is the weakness of the
infrastructure to provide the early warning," he added, urging a
strengthening of national meteorological services to aid
prevention, "save more lives and minimise economic damage".


"One dollar invested in prevention would save about seven times
as much in term of economic damage," concluded Jarraud, with "90
percent of all natural disasters related to meteorological,
hydrological or climatic phenomenon".


The most recent UN-sponsored report on climate change, published
last month, warned global temperatures would rise by between 1.8
and four degrees Celsius by 2100, bringing increased prevalence
of drought, heatwaves and heavy rainfall.


"The threat is real," WMO chairman Alexander Bedritsky warned.


"All the money which can be invested in prevention will have
positive consequences," he stressed, adding it was vital to
assess the effect of extreme weather phenomena and their economic
cost.

