

Kenya captain Steve Tikolo is confident of playing a full part in
the World Cup match against New Zealand here Tuesday despite
battling a calf problem.


The lower right leg of Kenya's leading run-scorer in one-day
international cricket was strapped during training here Monday
and, as the rest of his team- mates walked off the field at the
Beausejour Cricket Ground, Tikolo stayed on for some extra
stretching exercises.


Nevertheless the Kenya skipper, who led his team to a convincing
seven-wicket win in their opening Group C match against Canada
last week, said he would be fit to face New Zealand.


"It's alright," he told reporters after training. "I had a muscle
pull when I was bowling my second over against Canada. I should
be okay."


Tikolo turned in a fine all-round display against Canada, scoring
an unbeaten 72 after taking two wickets for 34 runs in nine overs
with his off-spin.


Kenya, the shock semi-finalists of four years ago, now face a
different class of opponent in New Zealand, who themselves got
off to a winning start with a six- wicket success against Test
rivals England on Friday.


"We know it's going to be a tough game," said Tikolo. "The
important thing for us is to do the basics right."


Although England beat Canada by 51 runs on Sunday, their opening
match defeat against New Zealand means they run the risk of not
making the second phase Super Eight stage should they lose to
Tikolo's men this Saturday.


Kenya, who four years ago beat 1996 world champions Sri Lanka,
know all about upsetting the odds.


However, a cautious Tikolo added: "England is a good team, no
doubt about that. But one-day international cricket being what it
is anything can happen on the day."


Kenya, unlike their Test counterparts, still have several players
holding down day jobs and although the squad spent time together
training before this tournament, Tikolo said there was no
substitute for match practice.


"We have four or five guys with day-jobs but they have gotten
leave, I don't know whether it's paid or unpaid leave.


"At the end of the day it is an honour to represent your country
and I think the employers understand that."


"The guys have prepared well going into this World Cup but other
teams were playing matches and there's nothing better than match
practice."

