

Rahul Dravid has told his India team that their World Cup dreams
are still on a knife-edge despite the record-breaking 257-run win
over hapless Bermuda.


India, who suffered a shock five-wicket defeat against Bangladesh
in their opening Group B game, still need to beat Sri Lanka on
Friday to boost their chances of advancing to the Super Eight
stage.


"The real challenge is ahead of us. We had two must-win matches,
but have won just one. The guys know what they have to do," said
skipper Dravid, whose side set two records during their win over
Bermuda here on Monday.


India posted the highest Cup total of 413-5 and then bowled
Bermuda out for 156 to resgister the biggest victory in one-day
internationals.


Dravid said his team needed to focus on the Sri Lanka match as
they had not only to win it, but win it by a handsome margin to
better their run-rate.


Sri Lanka and Bangladesh have both won their opening matches.


Bangladesh are in a better position as they have to take on
Bermuda in their last group game. Sri Lanka defeated Bermuda by
243 runs.


"There are some things which are not in our control, like the net
run-rate. The other teams' matches and results are not in our
control," said the Indian captain.


"What is in our control is to go and try to win the next game and
win it as well as possible."


The Indian skipper said hard-hitting opener Virender Sehwag's
return to big- scoring ways augured well for the team ahead of
the vital clash against Mahela Jayawardene's Sri Lankans.


"Viru (Sehwag) is a very good player and I'm happy he's part of
my team -- a key member. He's back into form just when we need
him before a very critical match," said Dravid.


Sehwag, who had just one half-century in his last 14 matches,
regained his form against the weakest team in the group when he
hammered an 87-ball 114 with three sixes and 17 fours.


Sehwag was named man of the match after scoring his eighth
hundred, but first in nearly two years.


"The effort he has put in is fantastic. All credit to him. We
expect a lot from him. He has been picked to score more than one
hundred for us," said Dravid.


Sehwag said a big innings from him was long overdue.


"I had the confidence. I knew the captain, coach and selectors
were backing me and I had to deliver," he said.


"I was waiting for just one innings. It was due for a long time.
Thank God, it has come at the right time. So I am happy with my
performance."

