

African nations on Monday said that negotiations were needed to
end the crisis in Zimbabwe over repression of the opposition.


Speaking before a two-day gathering of African and Nordic foreign
ministers in Oslo, several African envoys told AFP that peaceful
engagement with President Robert Mugabe's regime was the only way
forward.


"Continued dialogue, continued negotiations" is what is needed,
Nigeria's Foreign Minister Joy Ogwu told AFP, adding that the
issue would be addressed by the African Union (AU).


"Regarding economic sanctions, it is important that states that
are external to Africa do not take actions that are inimical to
the interests of Zimbabwe and Africa," Ogwu said.


Tanzania's Foreign Minister Bernard Membe said: "It is not extra
force that is required, it is extra negotiations."


"What is needed is to develop political dialogue and negotiations
between the parties in conflict," he said.


Membe also emphasised the need for African nations to deal with
Zimbabwe. "We are very optimistic that if this issue is left to
ourselves, Africans, we can certainly resolve the problems taking
place in Africa," he said.


Tanzania is part of a trio of Southern African Development
Community (SADC) countries -- with Namibia and Lesotho -- charged
with dealing with Zimbabwe. They are to meet on March 26-27 in
Dar es Salaam to discuss latest action by the Zimbabwe
authorities against opposition leaders.


Nordic nations repeated their condemnation of the crackdown on
the opposition. On Sunday, opposition MP Nelson Chamisa was
allegedly beaten up by Zimbabwean authorities before he arrived
at Harare airport on his way to attending a meeting in Brussels.


"To see the image of another opposition figure who has been
beaten, after seeing the same thing happening to the opposition
leader a few days ago, is totally unacceptable," Norway's Foreign
Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere told AFP.


African and Nordic foreign ministers are to hold two days of
talks on African security, climate change and UN-related issues.
Benin, Botswana, Denmark, Ghana, Iceland, Lesotho, Mali,
Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa, Sweden and Tanzania
have representatives at the annual meeting.

