

Dutch bank ABN Amro and British banking group Barclays on Monday
confirmed they were in "early and exploratory" talks over a
possible merger to create the world's fifth-largest bank.


Shares in ABN Amro had soared 9.6 percent earlier on press
reports that Barclays wanted to make an offer to buy the Dutch
group.


"Barclays PLC confirms that it is in exclusive preliminary
discussions with ABN Amro Holding NV concerning a potential
combination of the two organisations which will create value for
both sets of shareholders," Barclays, the third- biggest British
bank, said in a statement.


"These discussions are the result of careful consideration to
create a highly complementary partnership. The talks are at an
early and exploratory stage and there can be no certainty that
they will lead to a transaction."


A takeover by Barclays of ABN Amro would create a group with a
market capitalisation of more than 160 billion dollars (120
billion euros), making it the world's fifth-biggest behind
Citigroup, Bank of America, both of the United States, China's
ICBC and British rival HSBC.


The combined enterprise would have 47 million clients and employ
220,000 people in 50 countries.


Analysts viewed a tie-up as being positive for ABN Amro which is
under pressure from some of its shareholders who want to break it
up.


"After recent activist investors pushing ABN to break-up, a
merger with a highly respected bank as Barclays may not be
something they could refuse,"  Dresdner Kleinwort analysts James
Eden and Ian Gordon said in a research note before the
announcement.


The Dutch bank, which has big interests in emerging economies, is
facing break- up demands from hedge fund investors The Children's
Investment Fund (TCI) and Toscafund, which want management to
sell assets separately to make profits for shareholders.


Meanwhile, analysts said that Barclays could also face
competition for ABN Amro from other banks, including BNP Paribas
or Societe Generale in France, US-based Wachovia and Spain's
Banco Santander Central Hispano. They are all thought to be
interested in acquiring parts of the ABN Amro empire.


Barclays's stock dropped 0.8 percent to 677 pence on Monday.


"The value of ABN broken up is more than the whole. Royal Bank of
Scotland or Wachovia could buy ABN's US and Treasury businesses,
while Santander could buy its Brazilian and European retail
banking businesses," said Magnus Mathewson, banks analyst at
stockbroker Hitchens Harrison.


A deal between Barclays and ABN Amro was first mooted two years
ago but was torpedoed by the chief executive of the Dutch bank,
Rijkman Groenink.


Groenink had insisted then that cultural, legislative and
governance differences meant that ABN Amro would be the "junior"
partner in the deal and would be "absorbed" by Barclays.


The market capitalisation of Barclays is currently 44.3 billion
pounds while ABN Amro is 39.1 billion pounds, so the difference
in size persists.


Barclays said last month that its net profit surged to a record
4.571 billion pounds last year, while ABN Amro announced a rise
in profit of 7.6 percent to 4.78 billion euros for 2006.

