

Iraq sent another of Saddam Hussein's former henchmen to the
gallows on Tuesday as the nation marked the fourth anniversary of
the US-led war still battling a raging insurgency and sectarian
conflict.


US President George W. Bush, facing growing opposition to the war
at home, said it would take months to secure the violence-plagued
capital Baghdad and warned that a troop pullout now would be
"devastating".


Before dawn broke on Tuesday, Iraq executed Saddam's former vice
president Taha Yassin Ramadan for crimes against humanity, less
than three months after the feared former dictator was himself
hanged.


"Ramadan was hanged at 3:05 am (0005 GMT) today," an official
from Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's office told AFP.


"The execution was smooth with no violation," he said, after an
international outcry over the manner of the previous hangings of
Saddam and his former cohorts.


Ramadan was the fourth former regime official to be executed for
his role in the killings of 148 people from the Shiite village of
Dujail after an attempt on Saddam's life there in 1982.


"He was very calm and composed. He asked his family and friends
to pray for him and said that he was not afraid of death,"
defence lawyer Badie Aref said on Monday.


Despite global outrage over the executions, Iraqi leaders say
they are determined to punish officials from Saddam's Sunni-led
regime, whose supporters are blamed for much of the continuing
bloodletting.


In the four years since the launch of the "shock and awe"
military campaign just before dawn on March 20, 2003, Iraq has
descended into a sectarian hell that has left tens of thousands
of civilians dead.


On Monday alone, at least 55 people were killed or found murdered
in car bombings and shootings.


Bush, facing growing anti-war protests, pleaded for patience on
Monday with his unpopular Iraq strategy and Washington's revamped
efforts to restore order particularly in Baghdad.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," he said.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home. That may be
satisfying in the short run, but I believe the consequences for
American security would be devastating."


At 5:35 am four years ago on Tuesday, Tomahawk missiles and
precision-guided bombs rained down on Baghdad targets as Saddam
vowed it would be "Iraq's last battle against the tyrannous
villains."


But on April 9, the Iraqi strongman's statue in a central Baghdad
square was torn down with a rope around the neck, in a
premonition of his own hanging December 30 for crimes against
humanity over the Dujail killings.


Despite Bush's warnings, a new poll showed US public opinion had
soured further, with just 32 percent of Americans saying they
favoured the war, compared to 72 percent on the eve of conflict.


And despite claims by the Bush administration that the month-old
US troop surge in Baghdad was beginning to work, another poll by
Western media organisations told a story of deep Iraqi pessimism.


Only 18 percent of Iraqis had confidence in foreign troops, just
38 percent said the situation was better than before the 2003
invasion and barely a quarter said they felt safe in their own
neighbourhoods.


Protests have been staged across the United States and in several
European cities and Japan against a war that was originally based
on a premise of eliminating weapons of mass destruction that were
never found.


Commanders are now pouring 25,000 reinforcements into Baghdad to
quell Sunni- Shiite fighting, the bloodiest element of the
conflict and one which even the Pentagon admits amounts to civil
war.


In western and northern Iraq, Al-Qaeda militants pursue their
brutal insurgency against the US-backed government, while in the
south and centre Shiite militias jostle for supremacy and control
of oil resources.


The launch of the Baghdad security plan has driven some sectarian
death squads from the streets, but car bombs still explode every
day, scattering bodies and bloodied debris through crowded
markets.


"There has been a steady decline in the Iraq situation since the
invasion. Things have gone from bad to worse," said Joost
Hiltermann of the International Crisis Group think tank.


The raw figures do not tell the whole story of a complex crisis,
but they make grim reading.


Since the conflict began, two million Iraqis have fled the
country and 1.8 million have been displaced within its borders,
according to UN figures.


Estimates of Iraqi civilian casualties in the past four years
vary wildly, but the Iraq Body Count website's figure of 58,800
is among the more conservative. The Baghdad government said 1,440
people were killed in January alone.


At least 3,203 American, 132 British and 124 other foreign
soldiers have also died since the invasion.


Iraqi officials point to a constitution and the creation of a
national unity government by an elected parliament -- with 25
percent of its members women -- as signs of progress since the
dictator's fall.


US commanders, with a wary eye on plummeting public and political
support for the war back home, also point to reconstruction and
economic development efforts as the great untold story of the
war.


Nevertheless, the violence and the corruption that has dogged
Iraq's post- invasion reconstruction have delayed much progress
in terms of utilities such as electricity supplies.


And a series of US security operations has so far failed to fill
the security vacuum caused by Washington's decision to disband
Iraq's Saddam-era armed forces which opened the field to Al-Qaeda
and Iranian-backed militia.

