

"Cross country comes home," reads a huge billboard in the
historic Kenyan port city of Mombasa ahead of this weekend's 2007
World Cross Country Championship.


Kenya, which has produced more world record beating runners than
any other nation, will be hosting the competition for the first
time and hopes the event will improve the image of its second
biggest city.


Ethnic clashes in the mid-1980s, a deadly Al-Qaeda-claimed attack
on Israeli tourists in November 2002, and growing Islamism have
all given the sleepy resort a bad name.


Furthermore, Muslim leaders have threatened to disrupt the event
with demonstrations over the imprisonment of suspected
terrorists, while the US embassy has warned of a possible
terrorist strike.


But on the streets of the coastal city the atmosphere is lively,
with clean-up efforts ahead of the event pleasing tourists and
residents alike.


Roads have been repaved, old buildings repainted and a notorious
eyesore, the Kibarani dump, has been cleared.


Hotels have also reported an increase in bookings despite the US
warning.


The Whitesands Resort Hotel, on the north coast of the island
where the city lies, and where most of the VIPs and media will be
staying, said it had recorded an 80-percent increase in the
number of tourists booked for next weekend, even after the US
advisory.


Guests Guy and Florence Bergeaud, among a large group of French
tourists in Mombasa, said they saw no reason to be concerned.


"Mombasa is a nice town," said Florence, sitting by the poolside.
"I love the people here. They are very friendly and have a
natural smile. It is so relaxing here."


"Mombasa is much safer than Nairobi," said Swiss businessman
Alexandre Terrier, in the coastal town for a weekend break away
from the Kenyan capital, which has recently reported a hike in
crime, including bank robberies, carjackings and murders.


The Kenyan government has sought to assure visitors that a
security plan, involving all branches of the country's military
and police, is in place to protect them during their stay in
Kenya.


More than 1000 athletes from a record 66 countries are expected
to compete in the world championships, to be held right in the
middle of Mombasa island.


The course, with a magnificient view overlooking the Indian
Ocean, is entirely on grass.


Two sharp bends noticed as a major obstacle to athletes during
the Kenya national cross country championships last February have
been eliminated.


Instead there are lots of twists and turns as well as hills to
provide a challenge for the elite runners.


"We haven't had to construct any artificial obstacles like other
countries," course director John Velzian told AFP.


"All courses for the World Cross Country Championships are
different but this is the best course you will remember for a
long time to come," said Velzian, who spent months designing and
redesigning the site.


Another big challenge for the athletes will be the extreme
weather conditions.


The humid heat in Mombasa is likely to reach 32 to 33 degrees
Celsius (90 to 91 degrees Fahrenheit), but Velzian believes that,
since the races will be held in the afternoon, there should be a
cool breeze from the Indian Ocean to help the athletes.


Organisers have also included sprinkler areas on the race track
where the athletes can pass to cool down.


The Kenyan team itself has based its preparations at high
altitude at the foot of Mount Kenya, prefering to travel to
Mombasa two days before the championships to avoid the humidity.


Kenya is bidding to recapture the coveted men's 12-kilometre
title in the one- day event, with the added incentive of the re-
entry of undisputed Ethiopian champion Kenenisa Bekele, who has
had a change of heart about competing in Kenya.


The 22-year-old Ethiopian is, however, likely to face the
toughest challenge so far in his short career, in which he has
amassed ten world records.


Kenya will also have a host of Kenyan-born runners who have taken
on the nationalities of the oil-rich Gulf States of Bahrain and
Qatar to contend with.

