

Canada unveiled its 2007-2008 budget Monday, posting a 10th
consecutive surplus and outlining an economic blueprint to end a
fiscal imbalance which has helped fuel Quebec separatists.


Finance Minister Jim Flaherty presented his economic plan in
Parliament, saying his Conservative government had taken
"historic action to restore fiscal balance in this country."


Government revenues are expected to climb to 236.7 billion
dollars (200.9 billion US) while spending would increase to 233.4
billion dollars (198.2 billion US), with the bulk of new spending
going to the provinces as lump sums.


Canada's national debt, meanwhile, would be reduced by 9.2
billion dollars (7.8 billion US) in 2006-2007, and a further 3.0
billion dollars (2.5 billion US) in the following fiscal year.


More than one billion dollars (850 million US) in personal and
corporate tax cuts per year are expected from debt-interest
savings, Flaherty said.


Canada is the only Group of Seven (G7) industrialized country to
post a budget surplus in the past decade, according to the
Organization for Economic Co- operation and Development.


"Our unemployment rate is the lowest in 30 years. Our fiscal
fundamentals are the strongest in the G7 ... Our taxes are lower.
Our budget is balanced," Flaherty boasted in his budget address
to Parliament.


But the cornerstone of his spending plan is an attempt to solve a
so-called "fiscal imbalance" that has seen Ottawa awash in tax
revenues while Canada's provinces struggle to pay for social
services.


The discrepancy has in part spurred a Quebec independence
movement.


The French-speaking province is now in the middle of election
campaign with the separatist Parti Quebecois in the lead for the
first time in the campaign.


Quebecers twice voted against separation from Canada, in 1980 and
1995. Federalists narrowly won the last referendum.


But the Parti Quebecois has vowed to hold another plebiscite, if
they win.


In this budget, the federal government will transfer 39 billion
dollars (33 billion US) over seven years to the provinces for
roads and public transit, post-secondary education, health care,
job training and the environment.


These new transfers could stymie the separatists by breathing new
life into Quebec Liberal Leader Jean Charest's torpid campaign
ahead of a vote next Monday in the province.


With this budget, the minority ruling Conservative party also
needed to placate the opposition in the House to remain in power.


If the three opposition parties defeated the budget, it would
automatically trigger an election.


With election-style speeches at every stop, daily television
attack advertisements, campaign buses revving their engines, and
war rooms leased, the political machinery looked poised for a
spring federal election.


But while the Liberals and the New Democratic Party said they
would not support the budget, the Bloc Quebecois signaled its
intention to throw the ruling Conservatives a life preserver.


Bloc leader Gilles Duceppe said Quebec received only 80 percent
of the transfer payments the Bloc had requested on the province's
behalf -- "not bad," but not enough.


Still the shortfall was not significant enough to force a federal
election, he said.


To confound federal Liberal Leader Stephane Dion, a former
environment minister who has successfully made global warming a
key issue, Flaherty also announced 4.5 billion dollars (3.8
billion US) for energy conservation initiatives such as rebates
for hybrid vehicle purchases and a levy on older polluting cars.


The government also earmarked funds to help develop biofuels, for
clean air and climate change projects, to clean up Canada's
polluted lakes and rivers, and to monitor drinking water quality.


But environmentalists said it was too little.


One billion dollars (850 million US) would also go to aid
farmers.


One billion dollars (850 million US) has been set aside to
improve Canada's public healthcare, including computerizing
doctors' patient files and rolling out a vaccine to prevent
cervical cancer.


Canada's debt-to-GDP (gross domestic product) ratio meanwhile is
expected to fall to 31.4 percent, and is on track to meet the
government's target of 25 percent by 2012-13, Flaherty said.


And the federal debt is currently estimated at 469.3 billion
dollars for 2007-08.

