

Five rivers in Asia serving over 870 million people are among the
most threatened in the world, as dams, water extraction and
climate change all take their toll, the World Wide Fund for
Nature (WWF) said on Tuesday.


The Yangtze, Salween-Nu, Indus, Ganges and Mekong-Lancang rivers
make up half of the WWF's "top ten" most threatened river basins,
which "either already suffer most grievously under the weight of
these threats or are bracing for the heaviest impacts," the
organisation said.


Also on the list are the Rio Grande/Rio Bravo and La Plata in
Latin America, the Danube in central Europe, the Nile-Lake
Victoria in Africa and the Murray- Darling in Australia.


"Nearly everybody in the world lives in a river basin and
everybody has a contribution to make" to prevent further
environmental damage, the director of WWF's Global Freshwater
Programme Jamie Pittock told AFP.


The threats facing river basins are varied and interlinked, and
require holistic policies rather than efforts that target just
one aspect but can end up being counterproductive, he said.


For example, "as governments become concerned about climate
change reducing water run-off, they build more dams to store more
water, which then results in more water being extracted from the
rivers and so builds up more ecological problems," Pittock said.


Many governments are also focusing on hydro-electric power plants
as a "clean" source of energy, but this means more dams which
stem water flows and kill off fish populations, he added.


The WWF report highlighted water extraction, dams, and climate
change as the most wide-ranging threats that will have the most
impact on people, though invasive species and pollution also pose
serious problems.


This is particularly the case for China's Yangtze river basin,
where decades of heavy industrialisation, damming, and huge
influxes of sediment from land conversion have made it one of the
world's most polluted rivers, the WWF said.


Over-fishing is the main threat facing the Mekong, while dams and
infrastructure projects imperil freshwater habitats in the
Salween, La Plata and Danube basins, the report added.


Pittock said it is imperative that countries and corporations
address these issues, but praised work already, particularly in
China.


"China certainly has big challenges, they also have the resources
to provide big solutions.


"The Chinese government has been very active globally consulting
with a range of experts. They haven't turned the corner on the
ground yet. The policies they're putting in place have the
potential to do so very soon," he said.


The WWF official warned of "dire consequences" if the situation
is left unchecked, with increasing risk of conflict over access
to water, as well as the spread of disease and a fall in
nutrition standards.


"In many places people are not familiar with the scale of the
problem ... it is critical that people are involved," he urged.

