

UN chief Ban Ki-moon embarks this week on an 11-day Middle East
tour that will take him to Egypt, Israel, the Palestinian
territories, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, his spokeswoman
said Monday.


Michele Montas said Ban's main priorities during the trip, which
begins Thursday, will be "the Middle East peace process,
stability in Lebanon, Darfur and the UN role in the Iraq Compact
(for economic development)."


"The secretary general wants to see first hand the UN peace
operations and presence in the region. He also wants to hear
first hand from the people in the region the problems and
challenges they face," she added.


Ban sees "a renewed dynamism in diplomacy in the Arab world" and
wants to "express his support to ongoing efforts to re-energize
the Middle East peace process" during his attendance at the Arab
summit in Riyadh late this month, she added.


The UN chief also wants to discuss efforts to end the four-month
political crisis in Lebanon, Iraq and broader Middle East
questions with Arab leaders in the Saudi capital.


Ban's first stop will be Egypt, followed by Israel, the
Palestinian territories, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon.


Montas also said that Ban conferred by telephone early Monday
with his partners in the diplomatic Quartet for Middle East
peace, including US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, German Foreign Minister Frank-
Walter Steinmeier and European Union foreign policy chief Javier
Solana.


"They discussed the Quartet approach to the new Palestinian unity
government between Fatah and Hamas approved by the Palestinian
legislature on Saturday," the spokeswoman added.


She said the Quartet -- the United States, the EU, the UN and
Russia -- agreed to release a joint statement later Monday.


In an interview with that the Voice of America aired late Sunday,
Ban said he had found reports coming from the Palestinian
government "disappointing" after a new Fatah-Hamas coalition
declared its right to all forms of resistance.


"Initial reports coming from this national unity government seem
to be a little bit disappointing," Ban said.


The new Palestinian cabinet -- uniting long-time rivals Fatah and
Hamas -- met for the first time Sunday in Gaza City and by video
link in Ramallah, a day after Prime Minister Ismail Haniya
presented his government's program to parliament.


The Quartet has imposed a devastating aid and diplomatic boycott
on the Palestinian government since Hamas gained control after
defeating Fatah in elections early last year.


But Russia and some European leaders want to ease the isolation
of the new Palestinian government, in which Hamas holds the prime
ministership and 11 other portfolios while Fatah and independents
control 13.

