

Canada unveiled its 2007-08 budget Monday, outlining an economic
blueprint to end a fiscal imbalance which has helped fuel Quebec
separatists, and goodies to preclude an early federal election.


Finance Minister Jim Flaherty presented his economic plan in
Parliament, saying his ruling minority Conservative party had
taken "historic action to restore fiscal balance in this
country."


Billions of dollars were earmarked to aid farmers, clean up
polluted lakes and rivers, subsidize child care, cushion
soldiers' salaries, develop biofuels and promote energy
conservation, and inoculate women against cervical cancer.


But the cornerstone of Flaherty's spending plan is the transfer
of 39 billion dollars (33 billion US) over seven years to the
provinces for roads and public transit, post-secondary education,
health care, job training and the environment.


The scheme aims to solve a so-called "fiscal imbalance" that has
seen Ottawa awash in tax revenues while Canada's provinces
struggle to pay for social services.


The discrepancy has in part fueled a Quebec independence
movement.


The Liberals and the New Democrats said they would not support
the budget.


With election-style speeches at every stop, daily television
attack advertisements, campaign buses revving their engines, and
war rooms leased, the political machinery looked poised for a
spring federal election.


But the Bloc Quebecois, the federal wing of the separatist Parti
Quebecois, signaled its intention to throw the ruling
Conservatives a life preserver.


The minority Conservative government, elected in January 2006,
needed the support of at least one opposition party to stay in
power.


Bloc leader Gilles Duceppe said Quebec received only 80 percent
of the transfer payments he had requested for the province --
"not bad," but not enough.


Still the shortfall was not significant enough to force a federal
election, he said.


Canada's French-speaking Quebec province is now itself in the
middle of election campaign with the separatist Parti Quebecois
in the lead for the first time during the campaign.


Parti Quebecois leader Andre Boisclair has vowed to hold another
plebiscite on breaking away from Canada, if they win.


"I'm pretty confident that next Monday we'll have a new prime
minister in Quebec, Mr. Boisclair, and a sovereignist government
will know what to do with that money," Duceppe said.


Quebecers twice voted against separation from Canada, in 1980 and
1995. Federalists narrowly won the last referendum.


Pundits said Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper targeted the
federal funds to foil the separatists by breathing new life into
his ally Quebec Liberal Leader Jean Charest's torpid campaign
ahead of next Monday's vote.


Federal government revenues are expected to climb to 236.7
billion dollars (200.9 billion US) in this budget while spending
would increase to 233.4 billion dollars (198.2 billion US), with
the bulk of new spending going to the provinces as lump sums.


Canada's national debt meanwhile would be reduced by 9.2 billion
dollars (7.8 billion US) in 2006-07, and a further 3.0 billion
dollars (2.5 billion US) in following fiscal year.


More than one billion dollars (850 million US) in personal and
corporate tax cuts per year are expected from debt interest
savings, Flaherty said.


"Our unemployment rate is the lowest in 30 years. Our fiscal
fundamentals are the strongest in the G7 ... Our taxes are lower.
Our budget is balanced," the finance minister boasted in his
budget address to Parliament.


Canada is the only Group of Seven (G7) industrialized countries
to post a budget surplus in the past decade, in fact its 10th
consecutive surplus, according to the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development.


The federal debt meanwhile is estimated at 469.3 billion dollars
for 2007-08.

