

The European Union's External Relations commissioner Monday
dismissed suggestions Washington was adopting a harsher tone than
its Western partners on the new Palestinian unity government.


Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner said Europe and its US ally
would closely watch the government of Western-backed moderates
and Islamic radicals after withholding final judgment on the
administration following talks here.


But the partners left the door open to future relations if
Islamist movement Hamas, which dominates the administration,
meets conditions laid down by the Middle East Quartet of the
United States, the EU, the UN and Russia.


Asked whether Washington had adopted a firmer tone on the new
government, Ferrero-Waldner said: "The Quartet confirmed what I
always have been saying, we will judge the government by its
actions also.


"It is not only by its program, it is words and actions,"
Ferrero-Waldner told AFP. "This is indeed, I think, a slight
change."


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice earlier expressed dismay
over a declaration by the new government's Hamas prime minister,
Ismail Haniya, reaffirming Palestinians "right to resistance"
against Israeli occupation.


"I am not going to try to interpret what the right of resistance
means, but I'll tell you it does not sound very good to me when
one talks about 'all forms of resistance,'" she said.


EU Foreign Policy chief Javier Solana said the government did not
"comply fully" with the conditions.


The two sides said the Palestinian government must still
recognize Israel's right to exist and renounce violence as a
condition for recognition and an end to a year-long aid boycott.


Hamas failed to fully meet those terms when it unveiled its
program Saturday, though it did agree to respect past peace
agreements between Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas and Israel
-- a stance Palestinians say amounts to implicit recognition of
the Jewish state.


Ferrero-Waldner said earlier the European Union had decided to
continue its temporary aid to the new Palestinian government for
three months.

