

Russia's UN envoy on Monday angrily criticized the UN special
envoy for Kosovo for "preaching for independence" of the
Albanian-majority Serbian province during Security Council
consultations on the issue.


"His remarks have been extremely one-sided and unhelpful,"
Ambassador Vitaly Churkin told reporters, referring to the UN
special representative for Kosovo, Joachim Rucker, who is based
in the province.


"He delivered a sermon on the inevitability of Kosovo
independence. I thought it was quite inappropriate and said so,"
Churkin said, adding that any outcome in the Kosovo status talks
must be "acceptable to the Serbs and of course the Albanians."


Churkin's comments came as a UN-brokered plan for the future
status of the disputed Serbian province appears in disarray.


South African Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, who chairs the UN
Security Council this month, said the architect of the Kosovo
plan, UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari, would release his
report next Monday.


Last week, Ahtisaari warned that "the potential of negotiations
is exhausted."


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.


Nine days ago, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed to
agree on future self-rule for Kosovo after more than 13 months of
UN-sponsored talks.


"You cannot reconcile the views of Serbs and Kosovars and
therefore we think the Ahtisaari plan is really the viable
option," said a Western ambassador, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


But Churkin, whose country is a veto-wielding member of the
Security Council, charged that the UN mediators "are jumping the
gun and are beginning to advocate outright independence and this
is not good."


As he blasted Rucker, Churkin insisted that he did not walk out
of Monday's private meeting on Kosovo, but said he left because
of other obligations.


"The ambassador does not have to stay there all the time. For a
real walkout, the entire delegation is supposed to leave. My
first deputy stayed there and participated in the discussions,"
the Russian envoy said.


Rucker retorted that he had merely briefed the 15-member council
on what he called "progress" on implementing UN-set democratic
standards to build "a functional democracy and market economy" in
Kosovo.


US acting ambassador Alejandro Wolff rushed to Rucker's defense,
saying he had given a "very balanced, objective presentation,"
fulfilling his mandate of describing the situation on the ground.


Ahtisaari's plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-
governance to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to
break away from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia, and by its
traditional ally Russia.


Over the weekend Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said more
effort was needed to find a compromise between Serbia and
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority over the province's future.


And he suggested that if Ahtisaari "has exhausted his resources,
we can surely find someone else to handle this issue."


Churkin confirmed Monday that Moscow would like to see Ahtisaari
replaced, saying "This is what we are advocating."


But the United States and the European Union expressed strong
support for Ahtisaari.


"We have tremendous confidence in Ahtisaari. He's being doing
outstanding work," Wolff said, adding that the current deadlock
was not "Ahtissari's fault."

