

England's Six Nations campaign proved they have a bright future,
the country's director of Elite rugby Rob Andrew said, just
months away from the 2007 World Cup.


England's record since winning the 2003 World Cup Down Under does
not make for impressive reading but Andrew believed their Six
Nations performance -- three home wins and two away losses --
gave indication of a promising future.


There are still major issues head coach Brian Ashton needs to
address over the next six months, particularly in the forwards
where the traditional strength of England's game has been at
least partially eroded.


But Andrew is convinced England are entering an exciting new era
after young players like Nick Easter, David Strettle, Shane
Geraghty, Tom Rees and Toby Flood all emerged to make their mark
on the international scene.


Andrew said: "It was a very positive Six Nations in many
respects. We have blooded a lot of new players and won our three
home games which is the first place you start when you are trying
to rebuild something. England were even struggling to win at home
prior to that.


"The long-term future looks very bright. The increased size of
our pool of Test players is a positive shift. And one of the
important things to have come from the Six Nations is that for
the first time in three years England are looking forward rather
than looking back.


"The short-term challenge is about getting the right balance
between youth and experience to deliver what Brian wants
delivered heading into the World Cup.


"The last World Cup team took six years to develop and we have
six months. But if we do get that balance right there have been
enough signs in this tournament that we can be positive moving
forward."


The summer tour to South Africa will be vital for Ashton to try
and strike that balance, address the problems up front and cure
England's inability to win away if they want to appear in the
World Cup final in Paris on October 20.


"England have spent three years being traditional in their
approach but the results have spoken for themselves. Brian Ashton
is searching for that balance to put more dynamism into England's
game but if you have dynamism but get stuffed up front then you
can't play.


"We had the right platform against France but in the two away
games the opponents significantly raised their game to produce
their best performances of the season.


"Starting to win away from home is a big thing now for these
players. That is where South Africa will be important."

