

A fugitive East Timor rebel leader, who has eluded a manhunt by
crack Australian troops, is at the centre of fears that unrest
could mar the country's landmark presidential election next
month.


The renegade soldier, Major Alfredo Reinado, has refused to
surrender as the April 9 vote nears, casting a long shadow over
impoverished East Timor's first presidential poll since it
achieved independence in 2002.


"The population supports Major Alfredo and he is capable of
prolonged resistance," says Jose Luis Oliveira, a local rights
activist. "But if the Australians kill him, it could trigger
civil war."


Reinado has been a persistent problem for East Timor's government
and is said to have a band of armed followers, support from
disaffected youth and the backing of an ethnic group living in
the nation's west.


The fugitive was criticised for his role in unrest last year that
killed at least 37 people, displaced 150,000 and led to the
dispatch of Australian-led international peacekeepers.


Reinado has been on the run since the Australian troops attacked
his mountain hideout earlier this month in a failed bid to
capture him. Five of his armed supporters were killed during the
offensive, which triggered rowdy protests.


The troops then launched a, so far, fruitless manhunt for the
rebel, who for many young people in East Timor has come to
symbolise their daily struggle against endemic unemployment and
grinding poverty.


"Maybe it's politics that is the cause of our crisis, but also we
don't have anything. There's no work, not enough food -- that's
why young people are in the streets," school teacher Maria da
Silva Benfica said in Dili, the capital.


East Timor endured a violent transition to freedom after 24 years
of occupation by nearby Indonesia ended in 1999. Most of the
population was displaced and the majority of its infrastructure
destroyed.


The UN has tried to help rebuild the country, but unrest
continues to pulse through the fledgling nation, a former
Portuguese colony.


"There are rhythms of violence here that are inscrutable. The
place can go to hell one day and right itself the next," said a
commentator who works for an international organisation, but
wished to remain anonymous.


The unrest scarring East Timor has complex causes and is not down
to just one man, according to Rebecca Engel, an academic
researcher working for a local non- governmental organisation.


"You can't attribute the violence to any one thing -- but people
know they can get away with it," she said.


There was a need for "respectful engagement, communication and
information exchange" with the country's citizens, she said, and
its problems needed a more coherent response from local leaders
and the international community.


The eight candidates contesting East Timor's presidential poll
have already signed a code of conduct designed to ensure the vote
is fair and peaceful.


East Timor's Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta, considered the
favourite to win, has played down Reinado's ability to disrupt
the poll and said that he must give up his weapons.

