

The solution to the crisis between Lebanon's pro-Syrian
opposition and its Western-backed government is a national unity
cabinet, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad said in remarks
published on Monday.


In an interview with the Saudi daily Al-Jazirah, Assad also said
that Syria was prepared to establish diplomatic ties with Lebanon
once political relations return to normal.


Assad backed the call for a national unity government rather than
early elections in Lebanon to end the crisis which has seen the
opposition led by the Shiite movement Hezbollah -- also backed by
Iran -- organise an open-ended anti- government street protest.


"I think that a government of national unity is the logical and
constitutional solution which is implementable" in a way in which
there would be "no victor and no vanquished," Assad said.


Leaders from Lebanon's anti-Syrian parliamentary majority, which
is close to Saudi Arabia, and the opposition have held several
rounds of talks in recent days.


The meetings sparked hopes of a breakthrough in the standoff
which began with the resignation of six pro-Syrian ministers from
the cabinet of Prime Minister Fuad Siniora last November.


The main bones of contention are the opposition's demand for a
veto in the government and the majority's insistence on the
ratification of an international tribunal to try suspects in the
2005 murder of former premier Rafiq Hariri, which was widely
blamed on Syria.


Assad also said that Syria had "no objection" to exchanging
ambassadors with Lebanon once political relations are restored.


He said he told Lebanese officials just before Syrian troops
pulled out of Lebanon in the wake of Hariri's murder that he did
not object to the opening of embassies in the two countries if
they thought this would benefit them.


But there was subsequently "a rift between us and the incumbent
Lebanese government... As I said, I proposed the idea, but the
opening of an embassy requires positive normal circumstances at
least between the two governments, and of course between the two
peoples," Assad added.


The UN Security Council adopted a resolution last year "strongly
encouraging" Syria to establish diplomatic ties and delineate a
common border with the country it occupied and dominated for
three decades.

