

World oil prices ended mixed Monday, falling in New York but
advancing in London after a closely watched report forecast a
jump in crude futures in coming months.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, lost 52 cents to close at 56.59 dollars a
barrel.


But in London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery climbed 22 cents to settle at 60.52 dollars a barrel.


Initially, both markets had gone down on worries about crude
demand weakening in the United States, analysts said.


But for Brent at least, the market pepped up after the London-
based Centre for Global Energy Studies said prices were set to
jump over the coming months following last Thursday's OPEC
decision to maintain cartel output levels.


Meeting in Vienna, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting
Countries decided to maintain its daily output target at 25.8
million barrels, arguing that global supply levels were healthy.


Crude futures were also supported by a lift from rebounding stock
markets. Wall Street shares rocketed as investors cheered several
new merger and acquisition deals, traders said.


Sucden analyst Michael Davies said prices were down in London
earlier "amid concerns that troubles in the US housing sector
could spread into the broader domestic economy and dent demand
for energy."


Looking ahead, he said that oil prices could draw support from
strong demand for gasoline ahead of the summer driving season in
the United States, starting May 31, when US drivers throng roads
for annual vacations.


And in a monthly report, the CGES said: "By failing to increase
oil supply, OPEC has set the scene for another upward spiral in
oil prices over the summer.


"Having cut output at the start of the winter, OPEC always risked
taking too much oil off the market at a time when demand for its
exports was strong and that is exactly what has happened," the
research group said.


"Plunging temperatures and slower-than-expected growth in non-
OPEC output have depleted stocks and left crude oil in short
supply."


OPEC, which supplies more than one-third of the world's oil, had
cut production at its two previous meetings in October and
December.

