

Russia's UN envoy stormed out of a Security Council meeting on
Kosovo here Monday and accused the UN special envoy for the
Albanian-majority Serbian province of "preaching for
independence."


"His remarks have been extremely one-sided and unhelpful,"
Ambassador Vitaly Churkin told reporters, referring to the UN
special representative for Kosovo Joachim Rucker, who is based in
the province.


"He was preaching for independence instead of discussing
implementation of Resolution 1244 and this is very unhelpful,"
Churkin said.


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine Kosovo's
future status.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians. The talks are meant to set
out a future status for the Serbian province.


Rucker briefed the 15-member council on the latest developments
in Kosovo after Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials failed on
March 10 to agree on future self-rule for the disputed Serbian
province after more than 13 months of UN- sponsored talks.


Churkin said the UN mediators "are jumping the gun and are
beginning to advocate outright independence and this is not
good."


But Rucker said he had merely briefed the council on what he
called "progress" on implementing UN-set democratic standards to
build "a functional democracy and market economy" in Kosovo.


And US acting ambassador Alejandro Wolff rushed to Rucker's
defense saying he had given "very balanced, objective
presentation. He described the situation on the ground, which is
his mandate as the secretary general's special representative."


UN chief mediator for Kosovo Martti Ahtisaari warned last week
that "the potential of negotiations is exhausted."


The former Finnish president said he would finalize his proposal
and submit it to the Security Council, where Russia could use its
right of veto, for its review and final say "in the course of the
next month."


His plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-governance
to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to break away
from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia, and by its
traditional ally Russia.


Over the weekend Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said more
effort was needed to find a compromise between Serbia and
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority over the provinc's future.


And he suggested that if Ahtisaari "has exhausted his resources,
we can surely find someone else to handle this issue."


Churkin confirmed Monday that Moscow would like to see Ahtissari
replaced.


"This is what we are advocating," he said. "Ahtissari has been
saying he thought he is at the end of the road. So the situation
has to be considered. the main thing is not the personality, the
main thing is to continue negotiations."


He also made it clear that any outcome in the Kosovo status talks
must be "acceptable to the Serbs and of course the Albanians".


But the US envoy retorted: "We have tremendous confidence in
Ahtissari. He's being doing outstanding work," adding that the
current deadlock was not "Ahtissari's fault".


Last week, Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica again
accused Ahtissari of favouring the ethnic-Albanian side in the
talks.


"Ahtissari has gone over to one side, that of the Albanians, and
has made biased proposals," Kostunica told the Tanjug agency.


The Serbian leader called for fresh talks that would lead to a
deal respecting international law and the Serbian constitution.

