

A barrage of mortar shells crashed down into the seaport in
southern Mogadishu on Monday, triggering heavy fighting between
insurgents and Somali government troops, residents said.


The artillery duel, which wounded at least four people, came
hours after Somali and Ugandan troops had secured the port in
southern Mogadishu ahead of the arrival of military hardware for
African Union peacekeepers.


"Access to the seaport will be extremely limited for security
reasons because the AU is receiving a delivery of equipment for
their peacekeepers," said Captain Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for
the Ugandan forces.


"The ship is coming soon, it is very near, and we are tightening
security," he told AFP.


As Ankunda spoke, two helicopters circled the port in a bid to
boost security around one of the most targeted facilities in the
lawless capital.


"Those two helicopters are our supporting force," Ankunda said.


The Ugandans have been the first AU troops to deploy, amid
violent attacks, in the coastal capital. Some 1,200 Ugandan
troops of a total 1,500 have already arrived.


Hundreds of Somali troops and dozens of Ugandans have deployed
around the port for the delivery of Ugandan military vehicles
arriving by sea from the Kenyan port of Mombasa, expected in the
coming hours or days.


Violence in Mogadishu, the scene of almost daily attacks, has
increased around the port since Sunday, when one civilian was
killed and 11 wounded in a series of incidents.


Four people were also wounded on Monday in a nearby Howlwadag
village after a mortar crashed into their house.


"A mortar landed and exploded on top of our house. It wounded my
mother, my sister and two other people who were with us,"
Abdulkadir Mohamed told AFP.


"My sister suffered a serious wound in her back. Everybody is
shocked and so afraid of the shells. It is night and we do not
know what we are going to do with these wounded patients,"
Mohamed added.


Terrified residents said the fighting started after the
insurgents fired mortars amd heavy weaponry fire and the troops
responded.


Late Sunday, government troops had fired towards boats at sea.


Meanwhile, in the southern port town of Kismayo, police chief
Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was shot dead Sunday by one of his own
bodyguards.


Somali forces and their US-backed Ethiopian allies have been
battling an increasing insurgency since they routed a powerful
Islamist movement from south and central Somalia in January.


Earlier this month, the AU deployed some 1,200 Ugandan troops to
the Horn of Africa nation, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force
aimed at enabling Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to
take over.


The AU mission is the first international peacekeeping venture
since United States troops led an ill-fated, UN-backed peace
operation in the early 1990s.

