

Fears that rugby union is in decline in Australia have gathered
pace in this World Cup year amid wretched Super 14 performances,
an indecisive rugby administration and public agitation over a
lack of running rugby.


Generally there is a heightened anticipation as teams prepare for
the World Cup. Not so in Australia, where there is a forboding of
an early Wallaby Cup exit in France in September-October.


Australia have twice lifted the Webb Ellis Trophy, in 1991 and
1999, more than any other rugby nation, and lost in extra time to
England in the last World Cup final in Sydney four years ago.


But the signs of a competitive Wallaby team are not apparent six
months out from France '07 with the national team winning just
six of their last 20 overseas internationals.


John Connolly, who replaced Eddie Jones as coach after eight
defeats in nine internationals in 2005, has his critics over his
strait-jacket game plan and the Wallabies have won seven of the
13 matches in his charge.


Wallaby winger Wendell Sailor, currently serving a drugs ban,
blames Connolly's "old school" tactics of grinding the opposition
into submission as leaving star winger Lote Tuqiri and his fellow
outside-backs on the outer.


"Blokes like Drew Mitchell, Clyde Rathbone and Lote Tuqiri are
suffering," Sailor said recently. "They're not getting the
opportunities they have had over the last few years."


Rugby Union is under attack at home with dominant football codes
Australian Rules and rugby league garnering larger crowds and
media interest, while football has been resurgent since last
year's World Cup in Germany.


If rugby administrators were hoping for a turnaround in fortunes
this year they have been disappointed with only the newest rugby
franchise Western Force making an impression in the Super 14
provincial series, while the more established ACT Brumbies, New
South Wales Waratahs and Queensland Reds have languished.


Not one Australian side has earned a four-try bonus point
approaching halfway in the tournament, which has unleashed a
torrent of discontent from the media and frustrated fans.


Barry Want, who was a Wallabies Test selector during the
successful 1991 World Cup campaign, is one of many who is
frustrated with what he is seeing in Super 14 matches.


"Watching unlimited collapsing scrums, rucks, mauls and tiny
little contests all over the paddock without sighting of the
ball, plus referees trying to prove to their superiors that they
know the laws back and front so they stand a chance of getting a
gig at the World Cup is not entertainment," he wrote to a
newspaper.


A leading rugby writer opined recently: "Another week of Super 14
has passed and yet again the word popping up in rugby
conversations is 'crisis'. And it seems to apply across the
entire spectrum of the game in Australia.


"Australia's four teams are not only struggling on the scoreboard
but are conceding valuable points in the battle to keep an
increasingly cynical rugby fraternity from switching off
altogether."


The Australian Rugby Union has been under increasing pressure,
particularly Gary Flowers, who inherited the chief executive's
job off his immensely successful predecessor John O'Neill.


Flowers' performance has been questioned and even the Queensland
Rugby Union called for his head earlier this year.


"How the Wallabies go is critical to our business. In any
organisation people are accountable for performance and we are no
different," Flowers said recently.


"I certainly accept that, to a large degree, the public currency
of my performance is how the team performs. There is an element
of that in the criticism."


Flowers has also been wrestling with the playing future of
recalcitrant winger Lote Tuqiri, widely regarded as the most
charismatic Wallaby player.


After months of impasse with the ARU, Tuqiri decided not to
return to rugby league and re-signed a new five-year deal taking
effect after the World Cup.


Another dual international Wallaby Mat Rogers quit rugby to
rejoin the league ranks earlier this year.

