

Iraq executed Saddam Hussein's former vice president Taha Yassin
Ramadan before dawn on Tuesday as the nation marked the fourth
anniversary of the US-led war that toppled the feared dictator.


"Ramadan was hanged at 3:05 am (0005 GMT) today," an official
from Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's office told AFP.


Ramadan is the fourth ex-regime figure, including Saddam himself,
to be hanged for crimes against humanity over the killing of 148
Shiites from the town of Dujail after the strongman escaped an
assassination bid in 1982.


"The execution was smooth with no violation," the official said,
after an international outcry over the manner of the previous
hangings of Saddam and his former cohorts.


He said officials from Maliki's office and the justice ministry
were present at the hanging, along with a doctor, a prosecutor, a
judge and a lawyer representing Ramadan.


Lawyer Badie Aref said on Monday that the US military had allowed
Ramadan to call his family before his execution.


"He was very calm and composed. He asked his family and friends
to pray for him and said that he was not afraid of death," Aref
told AFP.


Saddam himself was hanged for the Dujail killings on December 30
and was followed to the gallows by two of his henchmen, Barzan
Ibrahim al-Tikriti and Awad Ahmed al-Bandar on January 15.


Even ordinary Iraqis who despised Saddam were surprised by the
sudden hanging of the man who ruled Iraq with an iron fist for a
quarter century -- although thousands took to the streets to
noisily celebrate his downfall.


Film footage of Saddam being taunted then executed was circulated
on the Internet, to the delight of many Shiite Iraqis who
suffered under his regime, but was widely seen internationally as
a public relations blunder.


The masked executioners and their sectarian chants were seen as
undermining the legitimacy of the process -- but this did not
unnerve the Iraqi government.


The hanging of Barzan -- Saddam's half brother and head of the
feared secret police -- was gruesome, with his head ripping from
the body as he plunged through the metal trap door.


An appeals court on Thursday confirmed the death sentence first
imposed against Ramadan on February 12 by the Iraqi High
Tribunal, which is trying former regime officials.


On hearing the February verdict, Ramadan cried out: "I swear to
God I am innocent. May God support me. May God take revenge
against everyone who rendered me injustice."


He was originally given a life sentence in November, but the
prosecution filed a petition demanding that he too be executed.


US-based Human Rights Watch had urged Iraq not to carry out the
death penalty, saying there was insufficient evidence linking
Ramadan to the Dujail murders.


"Ramadan was convicted in an unfair trial, and increasing his
punishment from life imprisonment to death reeks of vengeance,"
Richard Dicker of the organisation's International Justice
Programme said last month.


Despite global outrage against the executions, Iraqi leaders
including Maliki have said they are determined to punish former
regime officials.


"There is no revenge in the execution of Ramadan or the other
former regime officials," a senior Iraqi official said last week.


"The crimes of these people have rendered thousands of women as
widows. Their executions are gift to millions of Iraqis who
suffered under Saddam."


Ramadan, born in 1938, was captured by Kurdish fighters in the
northern city of Mosul in August 2003 and turned over to US
forces.


In 1970, he formed the Popular Army, the Baath Party's armed
wing, and was a member of the Revolutionary Command Council, the
country's highest authority under Saddam.


The Popular Army is alleged to have arrested suspects and
delivered them to Iraqi security and intelligence services
following the failed assassination attempt against Saddam in
Dujail.


After that attack, 148 villagers were arrested and never seen
again.

