

Cristiano Ronaldo shrugged off his latest diving controversy by
suggesting he attracts criticism "because I'm too good."


The Portugese winger was once again accused of cheating after
going to ground under a challenge from Middlesbrough's Jonathan
Woodgate to win the penalty that booked Manchester United's place
in the FA Cup semi-final.


Ronaldo himself converted the resulting spot-kick to complete a
hat-trick of penalties against Boro in the side's three meetings
this season.


Boro's frustration spilled over when James Morrison was sent off
for an ugly lunge on the United winger in added time before
members of Southgate's coaching staff clashed with United
assistant manager Carlos Querioz.


The player himself protested his innocence and said: "It was the
referee's decision but for me it was a penalty. Of course I felt
contact. He touched me and that was why I went down.


"When teams come here they always seem to have something to say.
I don't know why it is but there always seems to be some
controversy when I play against Boro. Sometimes people don't like
me. Maybe it's because I'm too good."


Southgate admitted his players and staff had lost their cool in
the closing moments of the tie.


"I'm sure lots of things are said in the heat of the moment but
this was an FA Cup quarter-final," he said. "I'm still not sure
whether it was a penalty and I have seen it three times.
Obviously the referee thought it was so that's it, end of story.


"We certainly lost our discipline in the last five minutes. James
Morrison is a young kid and he has a lot to learn. In that
situation we would all love to do what he did but you have got ot
be mature enough to make the right kind of tackle."


But Ronaldo's manager Alex Ferguson was incensed by
Middlesbrough's reaction to his player, accusing the North-East
club of creating a stigma against the Portugese.


"Cristiano Ronaldo is unbelievable," Ferguson said. "I hear
people saying it wasn't a penalty but it was a clear penalty.
It's because it is Ronaldo. They are creating a stigma against
the boy which isn't deserved."

