

For US troops from 9th Cavalry Regiment bumping around the
dangerous streets of Baghdad in Humvees after dark on Monday,
news that their deployment in Iraq could be extended fell like a
hammer blow.


Their commanders had cautioned that their second one-year tour
due to end in October could be prolonged while US President
George W. Bush later warned troops it was too soon to "pack up
and go home."


The expletives during the four-hour night patrol turned the air
in the Humvee, already thick with cigarette smoke, a dark shade
of blue.


"We just want to get out of here as soon as possible," said one
vehicle commander in one of his few printable comments.


"It's because the Iraqi army is so scared that we have to come
here to die," he added, asking not to be named.


"Ninety-five percent of Iraqis are good but five percent are bad.
But the 95 percent are too weak to stand up to the five percent."


"Bush should send all the Death Row prisoners here and they can
be killed fighting the terrorists. We've had enough," said
another soldier, as the Humvee accelerated past a roadside car in
case it exploded.


Added yet another, "Bush can come fight here. He can take my
1,000 dollars a month and I'll go home."


Commander of the night operation, Lieutenant Brian Long, said the
anger was understandable.


"One of the men has five children, another has three. Another has
a boy aged four -- he's missed two of those years. He'll never
get them back," said Long.


"It is like the movie 'Groundhog Day'. Each day is the same and
nothing ever changes," he added, referring to the 1993 movie in
which the principal character is doomed to repeat the same day
endlessly.


"It's tough. Everyone just wants to get home to their families,"
said the officer.


Bush, after speaking to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and
the top US military commander in Iraq, said in Washington that
his new plan to pacify  war- wracked Iraq would take months.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home," Bush said,
four years to the day after he announced that American troops
were fighting to depose Saddam Hussein.


"That may be satisfying in the short run, but I believe the
consequences for American security would be devastating," Bush
said, warning that a US departure would spark chaos in Iraq which
would engulf the region.


Platoon commander of the 9th Cavalry Regiment, Captain
Christopher Dawson, said he understood the need for troops to
stay in Iraq.


"We are starting to make a difference," he said. "The violence is
dropping. We are training Iraqis to take over responsibility for
their own security. We are helping them see their future ahead of
them. It is in their hands."


But the lower ranks were in rebellious mood, especially after
publication of a poll on Monday, commissioned by the BBC, ABC
News, ARD German TV and USA Today, which showed only 18 percent
of those questioned had confidence in US and coalition troops,
while 78 percent opposed their presence.


"If no one wants us here we are quite ready to get out tomorrow,"
said the outspoken vehicle commander.


One of the few Iraqis the troops met during their night patrol --
most stay indoors once the 8pm curfew kicks in -- said he feared
the day the US forces pulled out.


"They can stay for 100 years if they want," said Salam Ahmed, a
security guard at a shoe warehouse on the outskirts of the city.
"If they go, the bad guys will certainly come for me."

