

British finance minister Gordon Brown, seen as the likely next
prime minister, was on Tuesday dubbed a "Stalinist" by his former
top civil servant, as an opinion poll showed that he had fallen
further behind the leader of the main opposition.


The reports were published just a day before Brown was set to
deliver what will probably be his final budget.


Lord Andrew Turnbull, who spent four years as permanent secretary
to the Treasury and three years as cabinet secretary -- Britain's
top civil servant -- added in his interview with the Financial
Times there had been an "absolute ruthlessness" with which Brown
had denied his colleagues vital information.


Turnbull's comments were coupled with a poll in The Guardian that
showed Chancellor of the Exchequer Brown had fallen 15 percentage
points behind David Cameron, the leader of the Conservatives.


According to Turnbull, Brown "cannot allow them (his cabinet
colleagues) any serious discussion about priorities."


"His view is that it is just not worth it and 'they will get what
I decide'. And that is a very insulting process ... It has
enhanced Treasury control, but at the expense of any government
cohesion and any assessment of strategy.


"You can choose whether you are impressed or depressed by that,
but you cannot help admire the sheer Stalinist ruthlessness of it
all," Turnbull told the business daily.


Turnbull added that there had been "an absolute ruthlessness with
which Gordon has played the denial of information as an
instrument of power," telling the paper that departments would
learn only just before budgets of how much they would get in the
upcoming year.


Brown will deliver his 11th, and likely final, budget to
parliament on Wednesday. He is seen as the heavy favourite to
succeed Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has vowed to step down by
September.


Meanwhile, in an ICM poll published in The Guardian, 43 percent
of respondents chose Cameron when asked who they would prefer as
prime minister, compared with 28 percent support for Brown.


The 15-point gap is two points wider than in a similar poll last
month.


The poll also showed that the Conservatives extended their lead
on Labour in the general poll, with 41 percent of voters backing
the Tories, a one point increase compared to last month.


Labour was unchanged at 31 percent, while the Liberal Democrats,
Britain's third-biggest political party, fell one point to 18
percent.


The reports come less than two months ahead of elections for
local councils, and the Scottish and Welsh assemblies, in May.


Pollster ICM questioned 1,011 adults between March 16 and March
18.

