

The dollar extended gains against the yen in Asian trade Tuesday
as a global equity rebound helped to ease market wariness toward
more risky investments, dealers said.


They said the Japanese currency was also held back by
expectations that the Bank of Japan will leave its interest rates
unchanged later Tuesday.


The dollar firmed to 117.73 yen in Tokyo morning trade from
117.59 in New York late Monday.


The euro edged up to 1.3307 dollars from 1.3297 and to 156.63 yen
from 156.49.


"Investor risk aversion is receding as stock markets are holding
up well," said Masaki Fukui, senior economist in the forex
division of Mizuho Corporate Bank.


"The focus is on equities markets because they are vital
indicators of the degree of risk appetite," he added.


On Wall Street, shares rose almost one percent on Monday, boosted
by several merger and acquisition deals, helping Tokyo shares to
extend their recovery after the recent heavy sell-off.


Investors are slowly recovering their appetite for risk after
global stock markets were roiled by a plunge in Shanghai's stock
market late last month and worries over the health of the US
economy.


The recovery in global share prices has rekindled interest in the
so-called carry trade by speculators taking advantage of cheap
credit in countries such as Japan to raise funds to invest in
other areas with higher returns.


Market participants, however, will be taking a close look at US
housing data this week amid nervousness about bad home loans.


The US central bank meanwhile is widely expected to keep its
interest rates anchored at 5.25 percent on Wednesday but market
participants said they would be scrutinising an accompanying
policy statement.


"The market has already priced in a future rate cut but I don't
think the Fed will make any statement that will increase such
speculation," said Fukui.


An interest rate decision by the Bank of Japan was also imminent
but no one was expecting any move from the central bank so soon
after its February quarter- point interest rate rise to 0.5
percent.

