

Rescue efforts continued Tuesday in a bid to find 36 miners whose
fate remained unknown after a devastating gas explosion tore
through a Siberian coal mine Monday, killing at least 75 miners,
Russian officials said.


The blast killed 75 miners, and 92 others had been rescued, the
emergency situations ministry's spokesman told AFP Tuesday.


Earlier, the Kemerovo regional administration's spokesman Sergei
Cheremnov was quoted by the Interfax news agency as saying that
the toll stood at 78.


According to local officials, one of those killed by the blast
was a British "banking expert who was examining the enterprise to
determine its solvency."


Meanwhile, Russia's Emergency Situations Minister Sergei Shoigu
and a team of the ministry's expert rescuers flew to the site to
take part in the operation, which already includes 14 teams of
specialist emergency workers.


Vladimir Berdnikov, head of the Siberia branch of the emergency
situations ministry, said rescue work was difficult.


"Work underground is taking place in difficult conditions,"
Berdnikov said.


Russian television broadcast footage of convoys of ambulances
rushing to the scene and pictures of injured miners covered in
coal dust being carried on stretchers into local emergency rooms.


"The main goal now is to rescue as many people as possible. The
second priority is to make sure a fire does not break out in the
mine," Kemerovo Governor Aman Tuleyev was quoted by ITAR-TASS
news agency as saying.


Tuleyev said the explosion had occurred after a rockslide caused
methane gas to build up in a section of the mine.


The blast happened at the Ulyanovskaya mine near the town of
Novokuznetsk in Kemerovo region, some 3,000 kilometres (2,000
miles) east of Moscow. The huge mine is operated by
Yuzhkuzbassugol, an affiliate of Russian metals group Evraz.


Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov said authorities would launch an
investigation into the accident and that a criminal case had been
opened.


"More strict measures on safety are needed in these kinds of
dangerous situations," Fradkov told reporters in Pretoria, RIA
Novosti reported.


"Naturally, it is first of all the owners of such enterprises
that need to pay more attention to questions of maintenance,"
Fradkov said.


The coal industry in Kemerovo, a region in southwest Siberia, has
suffered from chronic underfunding since the collapse of the
Soviet Union and there have been several accidents there in
recent years.


Twenty-three miners were killed by a gas explosion in 2005 in
Kemerovo region and two separate mine blasts in the area in 2004
killed a total of 60 miners.


News agencies reported that the 270-metre-deep (900-feet-deep)
mine was opened in 2002 and was equipped with modern technology,
including gas control systems.


The accident nonetheless was a grim reminder of serious safety
concerns facing Russian miners and the weakening of trade unions
that in Soviet times could paralyze sectors of the national
economy.


Alexander Sergeyev, the chairman of the Independent Trade Union
of Miners, said widespread reforms were needed to ensure safety
in Russia's mines.


As well as requiring Russian mines to have state-of-the-art
safety equipment, the Russian government should fight against the
practice of miners being paid based on production quotas, he told
Moscow Echo radio.


"Miners often have to work hastily and ignore possible dangers,"
if they want to earn reasonable salaries in the mines, he said.

