

Europe's biggest political party unveiled Monday a 50th
anniversary declaration highlighting the EU's Judaeo-Christian
roots but avoiding any mention of the embattled constitution.


The text by the European People's Party (EPP), which includes
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, was released days before EU
leaders make public a "Berlin Declaration" to praise Europe's
achievements and commit to its future.


Merkel, whose country holds the EU presidency, European
Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso and European Parliament
President Hans-Gert Poettering, helped finalise the document, EPP
leader Wilfried Martins said.


The two-and-a-half page declaration, which addresses future
challenges like enlargement and reform, said that the EU is a
community of values based on democracy, freedom and inalienable
human rights.


"Our universal spirit, Europe's Judaeo-Christian roots and common
cultural heritage, as well as the classic and humanist history of
Europe and the achievements of the period of enlightenment, are
the foundation of our political family," it said.


Any mention of religion in the EU declaration has proved
controversial, just as it did during debate about the
constitutional treaty.


It has been an obstacle to the leaders ahead of Sunday's meeting
in Berlin to mark the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome,
which laid the foundations for today's EU.


The constitution has been in limbo since it was rejected in
referenda in France and the Netherlands two years ago and is
unlikely to figure in the EU declaration.


Nor did it figure in part of the EPP text written with Merkel's
help.


"In view of the recent enlargement of the European Union, we now
have to enhance its capacity to act, strengthen solidarity
between the member states and to reduce bureaucracy," it said.


"The European Union needs more democracy, transparency and
efficiency. For the 2009 European elections, we want to show to
the citizens that we have been able to share these goals."


Martens said his political group, which unites Europe's Christian
Democrat and conservative parties, did not want to undermine
Merkel's efforts to come up with a road map for the constitution
by June.


"We don't want to compromise this attempt to prepare a road map
and nor, therefore, the propositions that she will make," he told
reporters.


Despite Merkel's involvement, it remains unclear what effect the
EPP version will have on the "Berlin Declaration", which has been
drawn up by Germany behind closed doors, with input from EU
governments.

