

Australian Scott Sunderland brought his rich and at times
dramatic cycling career to an end just over two years ago.


But in a few days Sunderland, now in his second year working as a
manager with CSC, will be hoping 15 years racing among Europe's
elite proves decisive once more for his riders in the big Spring
classics.


Milan-San Remo opens cycling's one-day race season with a bang
this Sunday.


At nearly 300km long, it is crucial for anyone hoping to contend
throughout a tough month of April.


Sunderland never won the race known as La Primavera (the Spring),
but that hasn't dimmed his passion for a six-hour epic.


"Milan-San Remo is a beautiful race, and I'm not saying that
because I had a good result one year," Sunderland told AFP.


"You're riding all day then it comes to a fever pitch excitement
at the end. It comes in in a blurr, and it's over in a flash,
especially the last kilometre.


"But for racing the Tour of Flanders and Paris-Roubaix, it's a
very important lead-up race just as far as doing so many
kilometres."


The closest Sunderland got to winning in San Remo was a fifth
place in 1992.


Now under the team directorship of former Tour de France winner
Bjarne Riis, the 40-year-old Belgium-based Aussie is hoping to
pass on another golden nugget, this time to Stuart O'Grady, in
the coming weeks.


Sunderland was in control last year when Swiss racer Fabian
Cancellara won arguably the hardest classic of them all - Paris-
Roubaix.


The race with the rather more ominous nickname of the 'Hell of
the North' is held three weeks after Milan-San Remo - usually
over 265km, 50km of which will be on treacherous cobblestones.


O'Grady last won a one-day classic at the HEW Cyclassics in 2004.


But the 33-year-old has twice finished in San Remo's top four
(2004, 2005) and placed third in the Tour of Flanders in 2003.
Now he is hoping Sunderland's presence, and knowledge of the
tricky terrain in Belgium, will pay off.


"I usually get decent results there kind of going 'blind',"
O'Grady told AFP after the sixth stage of the Tirreno-Adriatico
stage race in Italy.


"But it's great working with Scott, especially when it comes to
the Belgian classics. He knows just about every road and cobble,
so hopefully it will pay off for me."


This season O'Grady has also been buoyed by his close fifth place
in the Belgian semi-classic, Het Volk, won by Italian star
Filippo Pozatto, last year's Milan- San Remo winner, and a fourth
and fifth place respectively in Milan-Turin and the Tour of
California.


"I'm feeling better and better every day," he added.


"The result at Het Volk gave me a huge psychological boost,
especially after last year as I missed a lot of the classics
through crashes.


"I'm hoping to do well in Milan-San Remo, but I think I've got a
better chance of a top result in the Tour of Flanders."


Held a week earlier than Paris-Roubaix, the Tour of Flanders has
plenty of flat and steep cobbled sections, and winding, wind-
battered back roads.


Former world champion Tom Boonen, the Paris-Roubaix winner in
2005, has won the race known as the 'Ronde' for the past two
years.


Sunderland, who cheated death when he was hit by his own team car
in the 1998 Amstel Gold Race, would be among the first to say
there are plenty of lessons to be learned from the 26-year-old
one-day powerhouse, and others.


"In Flanders you've got all the favourites from Paris-Roubaix,
plus more," he said.


Nevertheless, O'Grady is defiant.


"Boonen will obviously be the big favourite, but we we've got a
strong team and will have several options in Flanders," he said.


"We've been working hard this week in preparation for the
classics, and the confidence and form are building well."

