

Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo told Monday how he was
forced to watch his Afghan chauffeur being beheaded by their
suspected Taliban abductors.


The killing of the chauffeur has been widely condemned. Italy's
Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema called it a "barbarous" act.


Mastrogiacomo, 52, said in interviews with the Italian media
after his release on Monday that he was bound by his hands and
feet and feared execution at any moment during his two-week
hostage ordeal in Afghanistan.


He said the death of his chauffeur had been the most terrifying
moment of his captivity.


"I saw him being decapitated, it was horrific," the journalist
for La Repubblica newspaper told the TG3 televisions channel.


The driver had "his eyes covered and he was on his knees with his
hands tied behind his back," Mastrogiacomo said in the interview.


The Italian journalist was taken to a hospital in Lashkar Gah,
capital of the southern province of Helmand, but was said to be
in good health. A special flight was to take him back to Italy.


Mastrogiacomo, his interpreter and driver were abducted on March
4 in Helmand, a Taliban stronghold. The militia accused the
journalist of spying for Britain and announced last week through
an Afghan news agency that the driver had been "executed" for
spying. His interpreter Adjmal Nashkbandi was also freed Monday,
the Italian foreign ministry said.


The Italian foreign minister highlighted the sacrifice of the
driver in a statement heralding the release of the journalist. He
said the chauffeur was "killed in a barbarous way" and offered
sympathy to the family of the dead man.


Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi thanked Afghanistan's
President Hamid Karzai for his "concrete aid" in securing the
release.


"Without his permanent assistance it would have been impossible
to get a positive end to this dramatic episode," Prodi said on
the sidelines of talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.


A Taliban spokesman told the Afghan news agency Pajhwok that
Mastrogiacomo was exchanged for the release of five Taliban
members held in Afghan jails. The Afghan government has refused
to comment on the reports.


"I'm very happy, I thank you all," Mastrogiacomo said in one
interview with Italian television from a hospital in Helmand
province. "I knew you wouldn't abandon me, and that gave me
strength and courage."


Mastrogiacomo, dressed in a green caftan and beige turban, said:
"There were moments when I was really afraid of being killed from
one minute to the next."


His captors "sometimes" bound him hand and foot and held him in
15 different locations, the journalist said on La Repubblica's
online TV site.


"I feel really confused in my head, but I'm happy. I managed to
get out of it thanks to the help of the government, the foreign
ministry, of all my friends and colleagues," he said.


Mastrogiacomo's wife Luisella Longo spoke to him by telephone
from the Rome offices of La Repubblica shortly after his release,
media reports said.


A Taliban commander threatened last week to kill Mastrogiacomo if
the group's demands were not met by Monday evening, including the
release of three Taliban members held in Afghan government
custody.


They demanded that a date be set for Italy to withdraw its nearly
2,000 troops from Afghanistan as part of NATO's International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF).


A Taliban spokesman told AFP Sunday that Mastrogiacomo and the
interpreter had been handed to tribal elders pending a final deal
for their release.


Mastrogiacomo begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the Pajwohk news agency last Thursday.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days" said
Mastrogiacomo, according to the news agency.

