

The Vatican on Monday accused the media of adding fuel to the
fire in a polemic raging in Italy over a bill aimed at giving
more rights to gay and unmarried heterosexual couples.


The Roman Catholic Church's position on the issue is often
subjected to "an amplification and sometimes an alteration or a
manipulation of words to make the opposite point," Vatican press
relations chief and head of Radio Vatican, Federico Lombardi,
claimed in an address on the radio station.


The media should "respect what the person interviewed said and
wants to say" and "take into account the context and the nature
of published documents," he said, referring to the use of any
papal statement to back up claims in stories on the civil union
bill.


"With the situation exceeding the ordinary, a more than ordinary
effort is needed to adhere to professional ethics," he insisted.


Draft legislation, put forward by Prime Minister Romano Prodi's
government, provides for de facto unions, gay or heterosexual, to
be registered with the civil authorities, thus granting them some
of the rights enjoyed by married couples.


The Catholic Church has sharply criticised the proposed
legislation, prompting liberal commentators in Italy to condemn
the Vatican for meddling in political affairs.


The Church does however have several supporters in the media
world, including the Vatican's own paper, l'Osservatore Romano,
which has taken a bellicose stance on the issue.


According to a Vatican source, Lombardi's appeal was addressed to
l'Osservatore Romano as well as to the Italian media.


In addition to the debate over the civil union bill, the Vatican
is worried about "the dialogue of the deaf" between the Church
and the media, the source said, referring to among other things
the thrashing Pope Benedict XVI took in the press over a speech
in Germany last year in which he appeared to equate Islam with
violence.


The pope has also been criticised for his first apostolic
exhortation, issued last week, which urged Catholic lawmakers to
oppose laws favouring divorce, abortion and euthanasia, and which
dashed any hope for a relaxation of the requirement of celibacy
for Roman Catholic priests.

