

New Zealand's Scott Styris has insisted the chastening experience
of being beaten by Bangladesh in a warm-up match earlier this
month will serve the Black Caps well during the World Cup.


In a foretaste of their five wicket victory over India in the
tournament proper on Saturday, Bangladesh beat New Zealand by two
wickets in a practice fixture in Barbados on March 7.


It was a sobering experience for a Black Cap side that had just
enjoyed a 3-0 Chappell-Hadlee trophy series win over world
champions Australia.


New Zealand began their World Cup with a convincing six-wicket
win against fellow Test nation England, pre-tournament favourites
along with the Black Caps to qualify for the second phase, Super
Eight stage out of a Group C also featuring Canada.


But while no-one doubts the ability of Stephen Fleming's side to
be on their game when up against major sides, questions remain
over how they cope with the different pressures of taking on so-
called 'lesser' teams.


They face just such a test when facing Kenya, who have also have
a played one, won one record after their seven-wicket defeat of
Canada, on Tuesday.


"If you don't respect these so-called minnows then you
potentially face falling over against them," the 31-year-old
Styris, whose 87 not out was central in the victory against
England, told reporters here Monday.


"We've talked about it a lot - we need to make sure we show them
the due respect they deserve, they're here for a reason, and if
we don't it could be embarrassing for us.


"We've had a scouting session on them (Kenya). We should know
what to expect," said the medium-pace all-rounder who, together
with his team-mates, has received a briefing from former Kenya
coach Andy Moles, now at New Zealand first-class side Northern
Districts.


Styris admitted that in the past New Zealand had taken their eye
off the ball when confronted by opponents they were widely tipped
to beat comfortably. But he was adamant it was a problem the side
had gone a long way to remedying.


"We've become a lot better than we have been," said Styris, a
veteran of 124 one-day internationals. "Four, five, six years ago
it happened all the time in warm-up games whether it be against A
teams or in World Cups.


"In the last World Cup we got in a bit of trouble against Canada
before we got out of that. It's happening less and less now. We
talk about it a lot particularly in early tour games."


And with Ireland having knocked Pakistan out of the World Cup
with a stunning three-wicket victory on Saturday and India also
in danger of falling at the first hurdle, Styris said the
tournament was open as never before.


"We've read a lot about the competition being now down to six
teams. We don't view it that way - Bangladesh having beaten us in
the warm-up game and now beating India, they're very much in the
frame on these wickets."

