

West Indies joined defending champions Australia in the World Cup
Super Eights on Monday while India clinched a record-breaking win
over Bermuda to put their campaign back on track.


West Indies defeated Zimbabwe by six wickets in Jamaica to
maintain their perfect start to the tournament with a second win
in Group D while India posted a 257-run victory against Bermuda
in Port of Spain.


Rahul Dravid's side recorded the highest World Cup total of 413-5
and then created another record by registering the biggest
victory in one-day internationals by run-margin.


At Sabina Park, chasing 203 runs from their allocation of 50
overs, West Indies struck gold with 13 balls to spare when
captain Brian Lara lofted Elton Chigumbura over wide long-on for
a six.


The victory gave West Indies their second straight win in the
competition, following their 54-run triumph over Pakistan.


Lara, unbeaten on 44, and Dwayne Bravo, not out on 37, shared 75,
unbroken, for the fifth wicket to take West Indies over the line.


The World Cup hosts had wobbled to 129 for four, after openers
Chris Gayle and Shivnarine Chanderpaul had put on 73.


West Indies, bidding to become the first host nation ever to win
the World Cup, face Ireland on Friday in their final game where
victory would give them a crucial two extra points to carry into
the Super Eights should the Irish also make it through.


"We will see that match as being the first match of the second
round for us," said Lara.


"Australia would be the second game and we want the points to get
to the semi- finals."


Virender Sehwag roared back into form at Port of Spain with a
blazing century.


India posted the highest Cup total of 413-5 after being put in to
bat, with Sehwag (114), Sourav Ganguly (89), Yuvraj Singh (83)
and Sachin Tendulkar (57 not out) making merry against a mediocre
attack.


The previous best total was 398-5 by Sri Lanka against Kenya at
Kandy in the 1996 World Cup.


It was also the biggest victory in one-day internationals, the
previous highest being Australia's 256-run win over Namibia in
the last World Cup in South Africa.


Bermuda, shot out for 78 during their 243-run loss against Sri
Lanka in their first game, did better this time as they managed
156.


"Sehwag is a good player and it is good that he got back into
form ahead of the crucial game (against Sri Lanka)," said Dravid.


"It was just a matter of one knock and we expect a lot from him."


Off the field, Andrew Flintoff said he wanted to redeem himself
and promised an end to his boozy off-field antics after being
stripped of the England vice- captaincy.


The star all-rounder was dropped for England's 51-run win over
Canada on Sunday after reports that he had been one of a number
of players who had stayed out drinking until the early hours of
Saturday morning following the six-wicket defeat by New Zealand
on Friday.


"It's something which shouldn't have happened and I've suffered
the consequences. I'm obviously upset about it and it's something
which I never ever want to repeat again."

