

The United States and European Union withheld final judgement
Monday on a new Palestinian government, saying they wanted first
to judge the actions of the power-sharing deal grouping moderates
and Islamic radicals.


But following two-and-a-half hours of talks here, the US and
European diplomats maintained their insistence that the
Palestinian government recognize Israel's right to exist and
renounce violence as a condition for recognition and a end to a
year-long aid boycott.


"I have to say that this government does not comply fully with
the principles" said EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana,
referring to the conditions laid down by the so-called Quartet of
peace mediators -- the US, EU, UN and Russia.


Hamas, the Islamist movement which dominates the new government
it shares with the US-backed Fatah party of president Mahmud
Abbas and a number of independents, has so far rejected the
conditions.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also expressed dismay over
a declaration by the new government's Hamas prime minister,
Ismail Haniya, reaffirming Palestinians "right to resistance"
against Israeli occupation.


"I am not going to try to interpret what the right of resistance
means, but I'll tell you it does not sound very good to me when
one talks about 'all forms of resistance'," she said.


But while refusing to lift an aid and diplomatic embargo imposed
on the Palestinian government when Hamas took sole control of the
administration in elections early last year, the Americans and
Europeans left the door open.


Solana said the parties agreed to "follow in great detail" the
actions of the new Hamas-led government.


"It's much more important what they do than what they say at this
point in time," he said.


He also noted that the new government includes moderates who are
acceptable to the international community.


"We see in the government people that we trust, that we know
well, that we have been working with," he said.


"We hope very much that this will be a process that will lead to
the acceptance of all the (Quartet) principles," he said.

