

Andriy Shevchenko finally showed his true quality with a superb
strike that put Chelsea on course for a 2-1 FA Cup quarter-final
replay victory at Tottenham on Monday.


Shevchenko broke the deadlock with a finish of the highest
quality early in the second half before Shaun Wright-Phillips
added an equally brilliant second.


Robbie Keane reduced the deficit with a late penalty but Chelsea
edged through to set up a semi-final against Blackburn next
month.


After months of plenty of criticism for a series of lacklustre
displays since his pre-season move from AC Milan, Shevchenko is
coming into form at just the right moment.


His relationship with Jose Mourinho has been frosty at times amid
suggestions the Ukraine international was signed by owner Roman
Abramovich rather than the Chelsea boss.


But he scored a fine goal in Saturday's win against Sheffield
United and his devastating effort here was further evidence that
he is beginning to recapture the form that persuaded Chelsea to
pay 30 million pounds for him.


It was tough on Tottenham who had started well, with Dimitar
Berbatov wasting no time in testing Petr Cech with a looping
header from Steed Malbranque's cross.


Chelsea had staged a dramatic fightback to set up this replay
after trailing 3-1 at half-time at Stamford Bridge, prompting
Mourinho to taunt Spurs by claiming he expected his side to reach
the final after that escape.


Michael Ballack was close to backing up those bold words in the
sixth minute when he shot narrowly wide after Didier Drogba
chested down Ashley Cole's long punt.


Wright-Phillips has been given a rare opportunity by Mourinho
recently and the winger showed a glimpse of his undoubted talent
with a fierce drive from the edge of the area that flashed just
over the crossbar.


But Spurs have been free-scoring form of late and Michael Dawson
wasn't far away with a header from Jermaine Jenas's corner midway
through the half.


Martin Jol's side had won seven of their previous eight matches
and they gave Chelsea no time to settle in a frantic first half.
The visitors' front two were starved of service and Drogba's
frustration boiled over when he was booked for dissent after
fouling Ricardo Rocha.


Chances were at a premium as these London rivals refused to give
an inch.


Frank Lampard tried his luck from acute angle, but his scuffed
half-volley never looked like troubling Paul Robinson.


Tottenham were first to threaten after half-time when Pascal
Chimbonda's volley from Keane's flick was well saved by Cech. But
it was Chelsea who took the lead in stunning style in the 55th
minute.


When Shevchenko cut in from the right past Malbranque, there
appeared to be little danger, but the Ukrainian unleashed a
superb curling strike that arrowed past Robinson into the far
corner.


It was the kind of finish that earned Shevchenko his reputation
as the best forward in Europe and there was worse to come for
Spurs as Chelsea hit them with another stunning goal six minutes
later.


Cole spotted Michael Dawson was out of position and lofted a pass
to Drogba just inside the penalty area. The Ivory Coast striker
chested down to Wright-Phillips and he sent a perfectly-placed
strike whistling past Robinson.


Just as Chelsea looked set to cruise into the last four, Berbatov
won a penalty in the 79th minute when he surged into the area and
was brought down from behind by Carvalho.


Keane sent Cech the wrong way from the spot to set up a furious
finale, but Chelsea held on to keep their dreams of a quadruple
alive.

