

Greenpeace activists chained themselves to the gates of Canadian
Prime Minister Stephen Harper's official residence, in an attempt
to put him under "house arrest for climate crimes."


Five protesters padlocked themselves to the gates of 24 Sussex
Drive in Ottawa to try to keep Harper from leaving, lamenting
that his Conservative government's environmental policies are
inadequate.


"The refusal of the Harper government to honor Kyoto violates
Canada's commitment to the world, and is a crime against the
planet," Dave Martin, Greenpeace Canada energy coordinator, said
in a statement.


"By abandoning Kyoto, the Harper government is undermining
international efforts to curtail emissions, and exposing millions
of people to the dangerous impacts of climate change."


"Canada already has the green energy technology to build a
carbon-free future. We are only lacking political will," said
Martin.


Canada had agreed under the international Kyoto Protocol to
reduce carbon emissions to 6.0 percent below 1990 levels by 2012,
but a 2006 government environmental audit found emissions had
instead increased by 26.6 percent.


Harper has maintained that the Kyoto targets, agreed to by a
previous Liberal government, are unattainable.


His government introduced a bill in mid-October to reduce
Canada's carbon emissions by 45-65 percent by 2050, based on 2003
emissions. But it was widely panned for allowing emissions to
continue to rise until 2020.


In February, the Globe and Mail newspaper, citing leaked
documents, said a new draft plan called for a reduction in the
"intensity" of emissions from all industries of 15 percent by
2015 and 26 percent by 2020.


But overall emissions would continue rising if the economy kept
growing.


The five protestors brandishing banners calling Harper a "climate
criminal" were eventually arrested by federal police.


The prime minister's spokesman Dimitri Soudas, told AFP: "The
prime minister was not inconvenienced because he had actually
left for work early this morning."

