

South Africa pushed on Monday for a 90-day freeze of Iran's
uranium enrichment in exchange for a simultaneous suspension of
UN sanctions that the Security Council is looking to toughen.


The 90-day, simultaneous suspension was contained in a series of
South African amendments, a copy of which was obtained by AFP, to
a draft resolution agreed by six major powers last week and
toughening UN sanctions slapped on Iran in December for its
nuclear defiance.


"The 90-day period of grace provided to Iran would allow for a
de-escalation of tensions and create an opportunity for Iran and
the other parties involved to resume negotiations toward a long-
term solution," the South African text said.


"Sanctions should never be adopted in haste when other tracks for
the peaceful resolution of a situation should be addressed," the
text said.


The idea of a simultaneous 90-day suspension of Iran's uranium
enrichment and of UN sanctions against Iran was first proposed
earlier this year by Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the Vienna-based
International Atomic Energy Agency.


Diplomats in Vienna, meanwhile, told AFP that Iran had denied UN
inspectors access to its underground uranium enrichment plant on
Monday.


Blocking definitively IAEA access to Natanz could be a violation
of Iran's obligations under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
with as-yet unknown impact on the UN sanctions talks.


The new sanctions draft bans Iran from exporting arms, calls for
voluntary trade sanctions and expands a list of officials and
companies targeted for financial and travel restrictions.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply or face "further
appropriate measures," meaning economic sanctions but no military
action, under Article 41 of the UN Charter.


But the South African amendments would gut much of the text, by
deleting the weapons ban and many financial sanctions, according
to Western diplomats.


They would also drop several names of companies and persons
subjected to assets freezes or travel restrictions, including
Bank Sepah, key officers of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards
Corps and its entities.


"I don't think that these amendments are consistent with the
approach the Security Council is following," said French
Ambassador Jean-Marc de La Sabliere.


South Africa, which dismantled its nuclear weapons program during
its 1990s transition to democracy, has consistently defended
Iran's right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.


The South African envoy said the co-sponsors of the draft
resolution requested informal talks for Tuesday "on other related
matters, not to negotiate" the text.


"The negotiations (on the draft among the council's 15 members)
will start on Wednesday," he added. The sanctions package was
agreed last week by envoys of the council's five permanent
members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States
-- plus Germany.


The United States announced Monday it had granted visas to
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and 38 aides and bodyguards
so he can address the Security Council when it votes on the new
sanctions resolution.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Iran made an
additional request on Monday for visas for 33 air crew and those
were also expected to be granted.


US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice discussed preparations for
the new UN sanctions vote with her counterparts from the European
Union and Germany.


The West fears Iran aims to produce nuclear weapons with the
enriched uranium, but Tehran insists the fuel is for peaceful
energy purposes only. Iran warned against tougher sanctions on
Monday.


"Adopting new resolutions by the Security Council ... will face
Iran's proportionate response," Abbas Araghchi, deputy foreign
minister in legal and international affairs, said in a meeting
with foreign ambassadors.


The United States says it wants a diplomatic solution to the
nuclear standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option.

