

South Africa captain Graeme Smith has warned his team not to
slip-up against Scotland in the same way that Pakistan were
humiliated by Ireland.


Ireland's three-wicket win over Pakistan on Saturday sent the
1992 champions crashing out of the World Cup. On the same day,
Bangladesh confidently defeated India.


"The upsets in the other groups have kept everyone on their
toes," said Smith whose team take on Scotland in their latest
Group A match at Warner Park here on Tuesday.


"It just shows that if you're not up for it and don't perform to
your levels you can put yourself under pressure.


"We will certainly be on our toes and the way we performed
against Holland is the way we want to perform on Tuesday."


South Africa defeated the Netherlands by a huge 221 runs in their
first match last week.


"It's important to always get the basics right against a team
like Scotland, who are a bit of an unknown to us and if we can
get those basics right, we hope we can close the game off and
move on to Australia from there."


South Africa, the world number one, face two-time defending
champions Australia in the final group game on Saturday with the
winners taking a vital two extra points into the Super Eights.


Smith added that he wanted his team to put up a confident
performance against the Scots in honour of Bob Woolmer, the
former South African coach who died on Sunday.


"We were all very shocked. All of us had known Bob pretty well
and a lot have played under him so it's important that we can put
in a performance of pride for Bob," said the captain.


"Bob had such a big role to play in South African cricket."


The 58-year-old Woolmer, a former England Test batsman, coached
South Africa between 1994-99 before taking over the Pakistan team
in 2004.


He died on Sunday after found unconscious in his hotel room in
Jamaica.


"We sent our best to his family, and I know a lot of the guys
have been in contact with his wife. A lot of us had a close
relationship with Bob over the last few months, especially having
played against Pakistan recently.


"All of us socialised with him over a period of time. We all have
very fond memories of Bob - which is very important. The guys
just hope his family can get things sorted out, and that is what
is on most of the guys' minds at the moment.


"He coached for a number of years and has been a part of the
system for so long. We hope on Tuesday that we can represent him
well."

