

Giant-killers Bangladesh are counting on their teenagers to
deliver yet again when they clash with experienced Sri Lanka in
their second World Cup match here on Wednesday.


Teenagers Tamim Iqbal, Saqibul Hasan and Mushfiqur Rahim played
key roles in Bangladesh's shock five-wicket victory over 1983
champions India in the previous game here on Saturday, slamming
impressive half-centuries.


Just one win was enough to raise Bangladesh's hopes of qualifying
for the next Super Eight stage from Group B. In their last game,
they will take on first- timers Bermuda who lost to Sri Lanka by
243 runs in their first match.


Sri Lanka have won 17 of their 18 one-day internationals against
Bangladesh, but are not expected to have another stroll in the
park this time considering their opponents' recent form.


Bangladesh are looking a different side since arriving in the
Caribbean early this month, having stunned higher-ranked New
Zealand in a warm-up game in Barbados and then India here.


"We haven't played against most of the Bangladeshi players, but
we watched them against India and they looked very good," said
veteran Sri Lankan opening batsman Marvan Atapattu.


"The word pressure just doesn't exist with them. There is also
the advantage of being young. When you have been around for a
long time, the opposition can work out your strengths and
weaknesses."


Sri Lanka may have Cup veterans in hard-hitting batsman Sanath
Jayasuriya, off- spinner Muttiah Muralitharan and left-arm fast
bowler Chaminda Vaas, but cannot afford to have an off-day, as
India did.


Both Bangladesh and Sri Lanka are seeking a crucial win here as
it will boost their chances of advancing to the next round.


"The win against India has put us in a good position to enter the
next round," said Bangladesh skipper Habibul Bashar.


Bangladesh have already sprung one of the major surprises of the
tournament when they outplayed India in all departments of the
game. Discipline was the key to their success as they never
allowed India to bounce back.


Their bowlers did a commendable job against Rahul Dravid's Indian
team, with paceman Mashrafe Mortaza showing the way with four
wickets on a helpful pitch which offered him both bounce and
movement.


Left-arm spinners Mohammad Rafique and Abdur Razzak kept the
pressure in middle overs, finishing with three wickets apiece to
help their team restrict India to a modest 191.


Left-handed opener Iqbal, who turns 18 on Tuesday, scored an
explosive half- century to put his team on course for victory.
Hasan, 19, and Rahim, 18, then completed the job.


An exciting battle is on the cards between Iqbal and Jayasuriya
as both are bold stroke-makers who can dominate any attack with
their over-the-top hitting in initial overs having fielding
restrictions.


Iqbal is playing in his maiden Cup but has earned lavish praises
from his rivals, including New Zealand skipper Stephen Fleming
and India coach Greg Chappell.


The Bangladeshi opener had slammed a 48-ball 46 against New
Zealand in the practice game before dominating the Indian attack
with a 53-ball 51.


Jayasuriya may be playing in his fifth and last Cup, but has not
shed his flair and flamboyance. He was his team's key batsman
last year, scoring more than 1,000 runs with five centuries.


While Bangladesh were involved in a pressure game against India,
Sri Lanka were hardly tested in their opening match.

