

A captured Al-Qaeda operative has confessed to being the
mastermind of the 2000 USS Cole bombing and a key participant in
the 1998 East Africa embassy bombings, according to a Pentagon
transcript released Monday.


Wallid bin Attash said he bought the explosives and recruited
members of the team that rammed an explosives-laden boat into the
side of Cole while it was refueling in the Yemeni port of Aden.


"I put together the plan for the operation a year and a half
prior to the operation," he told a military panel convened in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba March 12 to determine his status as an enemy
combatant, according to a transcript of the hearing.


Seventeen US sailors were killed and 39 others were wounded in
the attack, which nearly sank the billion dollar state-of-the-art
destroyer.


Attash said he was with Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in
Kandahar, Afghanistan at the time of the attack.


The bombings of the USS Cole and US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania on August 7, 1998 were the most serious Al-Qaeda attacks
before September 11, 2001, when hijackers flew airliners into the
World Trade Center and the Pentagon.


Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, another top Al-Qaeda operative, confessed
during a March 10 hearing to masterminding the September 11
attacks, "from A to Z," and 30 other attacks and plots -- but not
the Cole or the embassy bombings.


Seven of 14 top terrorist suspects who were moved to Guantanamo
in September from secret CIA detention centers overseas have now
had their cases heard by the military status review tribunals,
defense officials said.


Four transcripts have been released. Still under review is the
transcript of a hearing last week of Abd Al-Rahim Al-Nashiri, Al
Qaeda's alleged operations chief in the Arabian peninsula until
his capture in 2002, they said.


Nashiri and Attash allegedly worked together on the Cole bombing,
with  Nashiri the local chief of the operation, according to the
US government.


The military panel on Saturday reviewed the cases of Zubair, a
Malaysian who served as an operational planner for Jemmaah
Islamiya leader Hambali, and Ahmed Khaifan Ghailani, an Al-Qaeda
forger indicted in the East Africa embassy bombings, they said.


Attash said he served as a key liaison in Pakistan between bin
Laden and the plotters in Nairobi for the US embassy bombings in
East Africa.


"I was the link between Osama bin Laden and his deputy Sheikh Abu
Hafs Al Masri and the cell chief in Nairobi," he said, according
to the transcript.


"I was the link that was available in Pakistan. I used to supply
the cell with whatever documents they need -- from fake stamps to
visas, whatever -- sending them from Afghanistan to Pakistan and
individuals, cell members," he said.


In that attack, suicide bombers detonated trucks loaded with
explosives almost simultaneously outside the embassies, killing
213 people in Nairobi and another 12 in Dar Es Salaam.


When the suicide bombers struck, Attash was "in Karachi meeting
the operators -- the guy that basically did the operation a few
hours before the operation took place," the transcript quotes him
as saying.


Mohammed Rashed Daoud Al-Owhali, who is serving a life sentence
in the United States for the embassy bombings, said Attash gave
him a "martyrdom mission" in 1998, according to the unclassified
summary of evidence.


Attash told Al-Owhali "he would be driving a vehicle filled with
explosives into a target which would result in his death," said
the summary, which also was released Monday.


"The detainee told Al-Owhali the target was a United States
embassy in East Africa, but he was not told the exact country,"
the summary said.


Attash did not dispute that piece of evidence.


But speaking through a military officer assigned to represent
him, Attash described some of the information in the government's
unclassified summary of evidence against him as "mixed up."


"Facts of the operations are correct and his involvement are
correct, but the details are not correct," the officer
representing him said.


Attash rejected an assertion in the evidence that another suspect
in the Cole bombing forged a stamp on a fake Yemeni merchant's
registration card Attash used.


He also denied that a phone in which an incriminating phone
number was found belonged to him, as the unclassified summary
asserted.


It was unclear from the English transcript of the proceedings
whether Attash spoke in Arabic through an interpreter, or in
English.

