

A barrage of mortar shells crashed down into the seaport in
southern Mogadishu on Monday, triggering heavy fighting between
insurgents and Somali government troops, residents said.


The artillery duel, which killed at least two people and wounded
six others, came hours after Somali and Ugandan troops had
secured the port in southern Mogadishu ahead of the arrival of
military hardware for African Union peacekeepers.


The pair was killed when a mortar hit their house in Hamel Jejab
neighbourhood, next to the port, witnesses said.


"A mortar shell landed in a house nearby and killed a mother and
her daughter," Sara Sheikh Hussein, a neighbour told AFP. "It
also wounded two other people."


Meanwhile, Abdulkadir Mohamed, a resident of nearby Howlwadag
village reported four casualities after a mortar crashed into his
house.


"It wounded my mother, my sister and two other people who were
with us," Mohamed told AFP.


Residents said several houses had been destroyed in some of
Mogadishu's heaviest weapon fire in recent weeks.


Somali forces and their US-backed Ethiopian allies have been
battling an increasing insurgency since they routed a powerful
Islamist movement from south and central Somalia in January.


Earlier Monday, African Union officials said Mogadishu seaport
had been secured and residents had been barred from the facility
ahead of the deployment of military equipment for AU peacekeeping
troops.


"Access to the seaport will be extremely limited for security
reasons because the AU is receiving a delivery of equipment for
their peacekeepers," said Captain Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for
the Ugandan forces.


The AU has so far deployed some 1,200 Ugandan troops to the Horn
of Africa nation, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force aimed at
enabling Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to take
over.


"The ship is coming soon, it is very near, and we are tightening
security," Ankunda told AFP.


Hundreds of Somali troops and dozens of Ugandans deployed around
the port for the delivery of Ugandan military vehicles and tanks
arriving by sea from the Kenyan port of Mombasa, expected in the
coming hours or days.


As Ankunda spoke, two helicopters circled the port in a bid to
boost security around one of the most targeted facilities in the
lawless capital.


"Those two helicopters are our supporting force," Ankunda said.


The Ugandans have been the first AU troops to deploy, amid
violent attacks, in the coastal capital. A further 300 Ugandan
troops are still expected to deploy.


Violence in Mogadishu, the scene of almost daily attacks, has
increased around the port since Sunday, when one civilian was
killed and 11 wounded in a series of incidents.


Late Sunday, government troops had fired towards boats at sea.


Meanwhile, in the southern port town of Kismayo, police chief
Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was shot dead Sunday by one of his own
bodyguards.


The AU mission is the first international peacekeeping venture
since United States troops led an ill-fated, UN-backed peace
operation in the early 1990s.


Insurgent groups have vowed to attack the latest peacekeepers.

