

US veteran Sam Hornish defends his Indy Racing League title
starting with Saturday's season opener here while a host of
global racers will try to deny him the throne for a fourth time
in eight years.


The 27-year-old reigning Indianapolis 500 champion will make his
100th Indy-car start in the Indy 300 night race at the 1.5-mile
Homestead oval trying to recapture the magic that brought back-
to-back titles in 2001 and 2002.


"It's a pretty neat milestone. Hopefully we'll be able to cap it
off with a win," Hornish said.


"In 2001, everything seemed to go really smoothly as opposed to
2002 when we had a series of ups and downs at times. Hopefully we
have a flip-flip of the two seasons and we will start off with
some good things."


The 17-race schedule includes five road courses, three more than
last season with the first of them in two weeks at St.
Petersburg, Florida. Oval-veteran Hornish considers those
circuits to be crucial to his repeat bid.


"Being able to stand out on those tracks will be very fundamental
for us to be able to come back and to repeat as champions," he
said.


Hornish rates his Brazilian teammate, two-time Indy 500 winner
Helio Castroneves, and Ganassi racing rivals Dan Wheldon of
England and Scott Dixon of New Zealand, both former season
champions, as top title rivals.


Wheldon matched Hornish in points but lost the title by winning
only twice compared to four triumphs for Hornish.


"I've been kind of disappointed with my 2006 season because of
all the chances we missed," Wheldon said. "We came so close in so
many races, including the Indy 500, but just didn't quite get it
done in the end.


"This year we'll do everything not to let those opportunities get
away."


Also on Hornish's list of racers to watch is the Andretti-Green
lineup of Scotsman Dario Franchitti, Brazilian Tony Kanaan and
Americans Danica Patrick and Marco Andretti, whom Hornish passed
at the last second to win the Indy 500.


Patrick, who has never won an Indy-car race despite often solid
qualifying runs, will be a threat for the checkered flag this
time, Hornish warned.


"She will be more of a factor," he said. "She'll probably more of
a threat. A lot of people ask me whether or not I think she'll be
able to win. I don't know if she's to that point yet.


"The consistency of finishing up there hasn't really came quite
yet. But would it surprise me if she won? No."


Wheldon has won the past two races at Homestead and was fastest
here in pre- season testing. Teammate Dixon was also solid in
pre-season practices.


"Pre-season testing isn't always a good indication and there are
bound to be some surprises in the first two races," Dixon said.


"You don't really get a really good idea of where you really are
until you get that first race under your belt."


Other international racers in the series this season include
South African Tomas Scheckter, Brazil's Vitor Meira, England's
Darren Manning, Canada's Marty Roth and Japan's Kosuke Matsuura.

