

The Chad army and Sudanese forces fought a deadly border battle
as Chadian troops chased rebels into Sudanese territory,
officials said Tuesday.


Chad admitted its troops crossed the border into Sudan late
Monday prompting a deadly battle with Sudanese troops, but
defended its actions as the legitimate pursuit of rebel fighters.


Government spokesman Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor said the troops
were chasing Chadian rebels they had been fighting earlier
Monday, and accused Sudan of providing protection for the
militants' retreat.


"Chasing the panicking (rebel) survivors towards Sudan where they
came from... our forces had to cross the border using their
internationally recognised right of pursuit," Doumgor told a
press conference in N'Djamena.


"It was thus that the defence and security forces were surprised
to find themselves in direct contact with the Sudanese army
forces, deployed to protect the (rebels') rear.


"The Chad government rejects the accusation that Chad
deliberately attacked the Sudanese forces."


The clash marks a significant escalation in tensions between Chad
and Sudan, who regularly accuse each other of sponsoring cross-
border rebel raids.


The Chad government had earlier denied that its troops crossed
into Sudan, after the Sudanese army said it had repelled a
Chadian attack in Sudanese territory and lost 17 of its soldiers
in the process.


The rebel Chadian National Concord (CNT) confirmed it had fought
government troops earlier on Monday but denied crossing the
Sudanese border.


"Instead of following us, the army headed directly towards the
east and Sudan, where it clashed with Sudanese forces," spokesman
Albissaty Saleh Allazam told AFP by satellite telephone.


"We stayed in the area around Amdjerima, we didn't go into Sudan.
When the army went, it knew. It went voluntarily, not to follow
us."


The battles between the Chadian army and CNT rebels took place in
Amdjerima, in eastern Chad, about 30 kilometres (20 miles) from
the Sudanese border.


Doumgor said in a statement that at least eight government
soldiers were killed in the fighting, while the CNT admitted 10
of its fighters had died.


"A column of more than 200 vehicles with armed elements attacked
a defence and security forces position this morning at
Amdjerima," Doumgor said on Monday.


CNT spokesman Maide Id Moura told AFP by satellite telephone that
it was government forces that attacked and said the rebels were
still in control of the area.


The CNT last week accused the army of attacking its positions
near the Sudanese border with helicopter gunships.


The previous weekend, clashes between local groups in eastern
Chad resulted in more than 100 deaths.


Chad has accused Sudan's government-backed Janjaweed militia of
involvement in those attacks, but there has been no independent
confirmation.


Chad and Sudan blame each other for supporting rebels in their
respective countries. Both have refused the deployment of a UN-
mandated force to patrol their border.


"Sudan has not abandoned its sinister project of destabilising
Chad," the government said in a statement on Monday.


It added that N'Djamena "expects the international community to
condemn unequivocally this aggression against Chad from inside
Sudan and take appropriate measures to force the Sudanese
government to abandon its expansionist and destabilising aims in
Chad".

