

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday invited leading US
lawmakers to talks to end a stalemate over funding the unpopular
war in Iraq, warning there was no time to lose.


"When it comes to funding our troops, we have no time to waste.
It's time for them to get the job done. And so I am inviting
Congressional leaders from both parties, both political parties,
to meet with me at the White House next week," Bush said.


"I know we have our differences over the best course. These
differences should not prevent us from getting our troops the
funding they need," he said, during a visit to war veterans in
Fairfax, Virginia, close to Washington.


While not refusing the invitation outright, Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid said however he would reject any talks with
preset conditions.


"The president is inviting us to the White House with
preconditions. It's not the way we should operate. He must deal
with Congress, we are an independent branch of government," Reid
said.


Democrats, who control both houses of Congress, are trying to end
the war in Iraq by tying military funding to a withdrawal of US
troops in 2008.


The House and Senate, which have both passed bills with different
deadlines, must iron out the differences between their bills and
send one to the president for his signature to become law.


But Bush has repeatedly said he will veto any bill that sets a
firm date for pulling US troops out of Iraq, which this week
marks the fourth anniversary of the fall of the regime of Iraqi
dictator Saddam Hussein.


He said he was calling the talks so "leaders in Congress can
report on progress on getting an emergency spending bill to my
desk.


"We can discuss the way forward on a bill that is a clean bill, a
bill that funds our troops, without an artificial timetable for
withdrawal and without handcuffing our generals on the ground."


But White House spokeswoman Dana Perino stressed the president's
invitation was not a call for negotiations.


"Maybe they need to hear again from the president about ... why
he thinks that it is foolish to set arbitrary timetables for
withdrawal," she said.


Bush has accused Democrats, who seized control of Congress in
November elections, of failing in their responsibilities to the
troops.


And he has called on a skeptical public to give his new "surge"
strategy time to work, saying the commanders on the ground in
Iraq were already seeing "encouraging signs" that an extra 25,000
troops being deployed in the country were helping to secure
Baghdad.


But Bush warned that the longer the standoff with Congress
continues, the more the Pentagon and the Army would start to feel
the pinch.


"The Democrats who pass these bills know that I'll veto them, and
they know that this veto will be sustained. Yet they continue to
pursue the legislation.  And as they do, the clock is ticking for
our troops in the field," Bush warned.


He said the military would soon notify Congress, which holds the
power of the purse, that the army would need to transfer 1.6
billion dollars from other military accounts to cover the
shortfall.


This was on top of 1.7 billion dollars already transferred in
March, the president said.


If by May no bill on funding the war has been passed into law,
the army could have to slow or freeze funding for depots where
equipment is repaired and mull a delay to military training
programs, Bush said.


"These actions are only the beginning. And the longer Congress
delays, the worse the impact on the men and women of the armed
forces will be," Bush said.

