

Ukraine's constitutional court on Tuesday emerged as a new
battleground in the country's power struggle, as the feuding
president and prime minister again failed to reach compromise.


Five of the 18 judges on the court made a dramatic statement
alleging dirty tricks and asking for bodyguards before they start
considering the legality of Western-leaning President Viktor
Yushchenko's decree dissolving parliament and calling elections
for May 27.


The Russian-backed majority in parliament refuses to comply.


The court is to start its hearing into the decree on Wednesday.


"Gross pressure has been applied," judge Volodymyr Kampo told
journalists, reading from a joint statement that indirectly
pointed the finger at the leader of the parliamentary rebellion,
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych.


"To guarantee our security we ask to be given state protection,"
the statement said.


Yushchenko and Yanukovych met for talks but the political enemies
refused to retreat.


The president "is convinced that a compromise... is only possible
on condition of early elections" the president's office said in a
statement after the meeting.


Thousands of Yanukovych supporters continued to demonstrate in
central Kiev for a second week.


The president's party, Our Ukraine, which has so far failed to
bring its supporters onto the streets, on Tuesday announced a
major demonstration on Wednesday in support of early elections.


In a further sign of tensions, Deputy Interior Minister Viktor
Suslov told the Komsomolskaya Pravda daily that "extremist
political forces are planning to cause confrontations to
undermine the meeting of the constitutional court and to
encourage the president to introduce a state of emergency."


The current crisis is rooted in the events of the winter of
2004-2005 when Yanukovych's defeat of Yushchenko in a
presidential race was overturned amid huge demonstrations dubbed
the Orange Revolution. Yushchenko then won the re- run.


The political battle being played out in Kiev has already been
characterised by accusations of unfair, even criminal tactics.


Yushchenko's supporters claim that Yanukovych's Regions Party has
offered huge bribes to lure Our Ukraine members of parliament,
further weakening the president's power base.


Now focus is turning increasingly to the constitutional court,
which comprises six judges chosen by the president, six chosen by
parliament and six by the legal community.


The court agreed to rule on the dispute at the request of
Yanukovych supporters in parliament.


A decision that Yushchenko's decree dissolving parliament was
illegal would deliver a severe blow to the president's
credibility, although a favourable ruling would put the rebel
parliamentarians on the spot.


Those speaking out on Tuesday included three Yushchenko
appointees, one judge appointed by parliament and one from the
legal community.


Their statement alleged that: "Public threats against judges on
the constitutional court (and) the pressure on them from certain
political forces to intimidate them and to politicise their
activity... does not allow legitimate ruling to be reached."


"Certain politicians say the decree was unconstitutional, but
only the constitutional court has the right" to rule, the
statement said.


Any delay to the court's work would shrink the potential campaign
time ahead of elections the president has set for May 27,
ratcheting up the pressure on both sides.

