

A recent orgy of debt-financed corporate buyouts risks
destabilizing world financial markets, the International Monetary
Fund warned Tuesday.


In its latest "Global Financial Stability Report," the IMF noted
that so-called leveraged buyouts (LBOs) by private equity funds,
which finance takeovers of companies through borrowed money, have
seen a "massive increase."


Typically, such equity groups then remove the company from its
public stock market listing and hive off its most profitable
parts.


The surge in LBOs has been spurred by a "desire to reduce the
scrutiny associated with being a public company" and a big influx
of cash from investors into private funds, the IMF said.


"The LBO-acquired firms that have become heavily indebted may be
more vulnerable to economic shocks," the report warned.


"A collapse in one or more high-profile deals could leave banks
with exposure during a syndication stage and could trigger a
wider reappraisal of risks across a broader range of credit
products."


After emerging in a big way in the 1980s, LBOs reached a record
level in 2006 with more than half the deals happening in the
United States.


Their worldwide value stood at nearly 600 billion dollars, a
70-percent rise over 2005, according to the corporate consultancy
Dealogic.


In February, a US private equity consortium led by Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts and Texas Pacific Group, backed by Wall Street
banks including Goldman Sachs, launched a record 45-billion-
dollar bid for Texas energy group TXU.


That trumped the previous record for an LBO, rung up just days
before by the Blackstone Group's 39-billion-dollar takeover of US
group Equity Office Properties Trust. That deal included 16
billion dollars of debt.


Jaime Caruana, director of the IMF's monetary and capital markets
department, expressed concern that a possible "relaxation of
standards" by regulators may have helped to fuel the LBO boom.


And he stressed that the company targeted in such a deal, once
saddled with massive debts, would find itself "in a more
difficult situation to cope with changing economic conditions."


The IMF report was issued ahead of the Fund's annual spring
meeting on Saturday. A day earlier, G7 finance ministers are
likely to debate the secretive hedge fund industry at their
latest talks in Washington.


Calls for tougher regulation of hedge funds have mounted in
recent months with Germany leading the charge for controls on the
trillion-dollar industry.


Concern has grown because ostensibly conservative pension funds
have joined the rush to invest in hedge funds despite their
secretive trading practices.


According to press reports, the largest of the highly speculative
investment funds -- Blackstone, Cerberus and Fortress -- are
likely to take part in Friday's Group of Seven talks.


But the United States and Britain, home to the biggest hedge
funds and corporate deal-making, have resisted the calls and
supported instead more self-regulation.

