

The United States will provide nearly 60 million dollars in aid
to boost security forces loyal to Palestinian president Mahmud
Abbas after members of Congress dropped their objections to the
deal, officials said Tuesday.


"We are clear to proceed," State Department spokesman Sean
McCormack said of the 59 million dollar aid plan.


Another official said 43 million dollars of the funds would go to
train and equip the Palestinian Presidential Guard, which answers
directly to Abbas, and another 16 would be spent to improve
security and infrastructure at the main cargo crossing between
Israel and the Gaza Strip.


President George W. Bush initially requested 86 million dollars
in January to provide training, vehicles and other "non-lethal"
support for security forces loyal to Abbas, the moderate
president of the Palestinian Authority who had been locked in a
violent power struggle with the Islamic movement Hamas.


But Congress balked at approving the funds and US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice lowered her request last month to 59
million dollars after Abbas agreed to join a power-sharing
government with Hamas.


She told Congress at the time that the State Department was
uncertain it could ensure that none of the money initially to be
disbursed ended up in the hands of Hamas, which the US, EU and
Israel consider a terrorist group.


Israel and the United States have refused to recognize or lift an
aid boycott against the unity government due to Hamas's refusal
to renounce violence and formally recognize Israel's right to
exist.


Abbas's decision to set up the unity government between his Fatah
party and Hamas upended a bid by Rice to revive negotiations on
the creation of a Palestinian state, though Israel has agreed to
maintain contacts with Abbas on security issues and other
confidence-building measures.


Rice submitted her revised aid request to Congress on March 23
and under US law, the legislature had 25 days to object to the
deal, a delay which expired over the weekend, McCormack said.


Another State Department official said strict controls would be
placed on the aid to guarantee it goes only to security forces
that "fall under the direct command and control of President
Abbas."


"None of this assistance will benefit Hamas or other terrorist
organizations," the official said.


Nita Lowy, a New York congresswoman who blocked the initial aid
request in January, said she had lifted her objections after
receiving assurances from Rice.


"Although I remain troubled that the unity government is
unwilling to be a partner for peace with Israel, I am persuaded
by Secretary of State Rice and the government of Israel that
United States security assistance is necessary to prevent the
collapse of any chance for a peace agreement," she said in a
statement.


"US participation will ensure that we will be a key player in the
multi-donor, international effort to strengthen forces loyal to
Abu Mazin through training and equipment for his presidential
guard," she said, using Abbas's nom de guerre.


State Department officials said no US money would go directly to
Abbas or his security apparatus, but would be provided in the
form of training and equipment.


The money will provide "critical training and non-lethal
assistance to the Palestinian Presidential Guard, whose
responsibilities include protecting President Abbas and other
VIP's, including visiting American officials," one official said.


The guard is also responsible for maintaining security at key
crossing points from the Palestinian territories into Israel, a
key concern for the Jewish state.


The 16 million dollars for the Karney crossing would improve
physical security and infrastructure on the Palestinian side of
the gateway, the main commercial link between Gaza and Israel.


"Expanding the operations at Karney is vital to addressing
pressing economic needs for the 1.4 million residents of Gaza,"
he said.


"This will enhance Israeli security as well as Palestinian
economic development," he said.

