

Shares of Bell Canada Enterprises Inc. shot skyward Tuesday on
talk that its largest single shareholder planned the biggest
takeover in history.


Citing unnamed sources, Canada's two national dailies and the New
York Times said the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan was
"frustrated" by the company's stagnant stock value and would lead
a consortium to privatize Canada's largest telecom.


The Globe and Mail said the Teachers and the US-based Providence
Equity Partners Inc. of Rhode Island were willing to offer 32
billion dollars, or 40 dollars per share, for BCE, the parent of
Bell Canada.


The New York Times reported that the Teachers had approached the
Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec and the Canada Pension
Plan Investment Board about making a 45 billion-dollar offer for
Bell Canada, saying it would be "the largest buyout in history."


The National Post said the Teachers had talked with "a number of
institutional shareholders" in recent months about a possible
deal to takeover BCE.


BCE shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange hit a 52-week
high of 30.57 Tuesday afternoon, after trading between 22.23 and
30.02 in 2006.


The shares closed Monday at 28.23 and opened Tuesday at 30.31 on
the news.


The Teachers could not be reached for comment, but said in US
securities filings Monday it "is closely monitoring developments
and is exploring its options."


BCE also did not return calls to its Montreal head office.


But the company said on March 29" "There are no ongoing
discussions being held with any private equity investor with
respect to any privatization of the company or any similar
transaction."


The Teachers meanwhile firmly denied a March rumor that it was
partnering with New York-based private equity firm Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. to launch a friendly takeover bid for
BCE.


"Teachers' is not pursuing such transaction with KKR and has no
current intention or plans to pursue such transaction with KKR,"
the Teachers said in US securities filings.


The fund, which manages 106 billion Canadian dollars (92.5
billion US) in assets, owns almost 42.8 million BCE shares, or
5.3 percent of outstanding shares.


Bell Canada is the dominant carrier in eastern Canada, and is one
of the country's largest corporations and employers.


In addition to its vast telecommunications holdings, BCE owns a
stake in the Globe and Mail newspaper, Canadian broadcaster CTV
and several specialty Canadian cable channels, as well as the
Toronto Maple Leafs hockey club and the NBA's Toronto Raptors.

