

Guinea-Bissau's leader has appointed a new consensus prime
minister, bowing to opposition pressure and ending three weeks of
a political deadlock sparked by a no confidence vote in the
former government.


President Joao Bernardo Vieira named by decree Martinho Ndafa
Kabi, of the left- wing African Party for the Independence of
Guinea-Bissau and Cape Verde (PAIGC), as prime minister, state
radio said Tuesday.


He replaces the former prime minister Aristide Gomes who tendered
his resignation and that of his government last month following
the loss of a confidence vote on March 19, amid criticism over
state spending and failure to clear several months of pay arrears
owed to civil servants.


The no confidence vote in Gomes dealt a blow to Viera, who has
struggled to govern the poverty-stricken west African country
since returning to power in 2005.


Vieira was overthrown from power in 1999 after 19 years of iron-
fisted rule, but returned from exile in former colonial power
Portugal to controversially run for the presidency as an
independent.


Since then however, he has had problems securing support in
parliament amid a power struggle that has weakened the already
impoverished country.


Legally, after the no-confidence vote, Vieira was supposed to
have dissolved the government within 72 hours, but he didn't.


Ten days later, Gomes and his government stepped down, but Monday
the opposition charged Vieira had been planning on re-instating
Gomes. Later in the day however, he issued the decree to appoint
Kabi.


An engineer by training, Kabi, 48, was proposed for the prime
minister seat by the country's main political parties. He held
the posts of minister of energy and defence between 2004 and
2005.


"We are very satisfied with this appointment, which constitutes a
resolution of the political crisis that our country is going
through," said Braima Fori Djalo, vice-president of the PRS,
former president Kumba Yala's party.


"Kabi is an excellent cadre, technically and politically. We are
really sure he will lead the country to a better destiny," said
Daniel Gomes, spokesman for the PAIGC.


But Vieira's aides remained sceptical.


"The government had engaged in negotiations with international
partners, we should have been given a chance to complete the
work," said Armando Dias, an aide of Vieira.


"This dissolution puts an end to all the efforts agreed until
now," he added.


Kabi is a product of a deal struck by the country's main
political parties last month in a bid to resolve the crises of
the small country of 1,6 million people which relies heavily on
foreign aid.


Vieira appointed Gomes, his close aide as prime minister in
November 2005 despite objections from the PAIGC, which held the
parliamentary majority, to replace Carlos Gomes Junior, who he
had sacked only a few months into office following a series of
disputes.


With the Atlantic Ocean to its west and wedged between Senegal to
the north and Guinea to the east and south, Guinea-Bissau, which
won independence from Portugal in 1974, is the world's fifth
poorest nation, according to the UN.

