

The euro surged to a record high against the yen here Tuesday,
throwing up a fresh challenge to Group of Seven finance ministers
who have so far failed to stem the slide in the Japanese
currency.


As the ministers prepared to meet in Washington on Friday, the
euro jumped at one point to 160.12 yen from 159.33 in New York
late on Monday.


The single European currency later traded at 160.01 yen.


The dollar fell to 119 yen from 119.29 on Monday and also lost
ground against the euro.


The euro was trading at 1.3445 dollars against 1.3354 on Monday
in New York.


The euro since May 2006 has risen 13.5 percent against the yen
while the dollar has gained 9.0 percent against the Japanese
currency, a trend largely reflecting interest rates in Japan that
are substantially lower than those in the eurozone and the United
States.


Japanese rates are currently at 0.50 percent compared with 3.75
percent in the eurozone and 5.25 percent in the United States.


The differentials encourage what are known as "carry trades," in
which traders borrow money cheaply in Japan that is then invested
in higher-yielding currencies.


The degree of risk inherent in such a strategy, as well as the
weakness of the yen, has unsettled European members of the Group
of Seven who fear that a declining yen -- and appreciating euro
-- will leave eurozone exports more expensive and less
competitive on world markets.


At their last meeting in Germany in early February the G7
ministers -- representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States -- issued a statement warning
against the risks of the carry trade.


But for Julian Jessop, an analyst with Capital Economics, such
comments carry little weight.


"G7 comments will not make any difference, especially as they are
not backed by any hard action," he said.


Despite pressure from eurozone officials, who had hoped for a
stronger signal, the G7 statement in Germany made no specific
mention of the weakening yen.


Instead, finance chiefs merely expressed their distaste for
currency volatility and chose to target China, rather than Japan,
urging Beijing to allow more flexibility in its exchange rate
regime.


Eurozone unease at the meeting was not shared by the United
States, where the authorities are more concerned about what they
see as an undervalued Chinese yuan.


At the moment, according to Paul Chertokow of The Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi in London, "the yen remains impaired against the
dollar and the euro by the prospect that the Bank of Japan will
maintain an unchanged monetary stance at least until after the
(Japanese) Upper House elections in July."


But dealers were nonetheless looking ahead to the G7 gathering in
Washington on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


But Japanese Finance Minister Koji Omi said Tuesday that the
agenda for the session had not yet been decided.


Omi said last week that the G7 ministers would discuss currencies
in general but would not focus in particular on the weakness of
the yen.


Investors will also be on the lookout for the minutes from the
March meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Wednesday
for clues on the direction of US monetary policy, dealers said.

