

The subsidence plaguing the foundations of the US housing market
deepened Tuesday as America's biggest homebuilder, D.R. Horton,
Inc., reported a hefty 37 percent slump in new home orders.


D.R. Horton is a key bellwether for the US housing industry: It
erected tens of thousands of new homes across the country last
year and markets luxurious properties, town homes and apartments
priced from 90,000 to over 900,000 dollars.


The company's woes, however, reflect a wider downturn in the US
housing market which slowed markedly last year following a multi-
year boom which saw prices and construction projects rocket.


D.R. Horton's gloomy update comes after a flurry of rival
homebuilder's have reported losses in recent weeks, and days
after mortgage lender New Century Financial Corp., announced it
was seeking bankruptcy protection.


Concerns about the housing downturn and forecasts suggesting over
two million Americans could lose their properties to foreclosure
in the next couple of years have sparked alarm among
congressional lawmakers.


D.R. Horton said net sales orders for the last quarter slumped 37
percent to 9,983 new properties compared with the same quarter of
2006.


The homebuilder also reported a 32 percent cancellation rate for
the quarter ended March 31, saying cancellations, however, were
little changed from the prior quarter.


"Market conditions for new home sales continue to be challenging
in most of our markets as inventory levels of both new and
existing homes remain high," said D.R. Horton's chairman Donald
Horton.


Although the housing downturn has acted as a drag on the world's
largest economy, most economists believe it will not pitch the US
into a recession although economic growth has cooled in the past
year.


The International Monetary Fund cautioned in a report last
Thursday that the US housing slowdown has yet to notably
spillover into over sectors of the economy.


However, it warned that if a spillover did occur, it could affect
other economies as well as growth in the United States.

