

The US State Department said authorities in Macau had unblocked
North Korean bank accounts on Tuesday, removing a major hurdle to
implementation of a landmark agreement to end the communist
regime's nuclear weapons program.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Washington now
expected North Korea to follow through with its pledge to shut
down and seal its Yongbyong nuclear reactor by a Saturday
deadline.


"The ball is in their court on the matter," McCormack said.


North Korea has refused to shut the reactor until it receives 25
million dollars in funds that had been frozen in the Banco Delta
Asia (BDA) bank in Macau after Washington blacklisted the bank
for allegedly laundering illicit North Korean funds.


Washington lifted its objections to releasing the funds last
month in a deal that included a North Korean pledge the money
would only be used for "humanitarian purposes."


But the 25 million dollars remained blocked due to what US and
Chinese officials described as technical problems.


McCormack said Tuesday that Macau monetary authorities had agreed
to open the accounts to their owners.


"The bottom line is they have unblocked these accounts and
authorized account holders to withdraw the funds from those
accounts," he said, citing a statement by a Macau monetary policy
spokeswoman.


"The issue has been resolved, I think in the view of all the
parties in the six- party talks, and we'll see if the North
Koreans share that view," he said, referring to the parties to
North Korean disarmament negotiations -- China, Japan, North
Korea, South Korea, Russia and the United States.


Earlier Tuesday the Macao Monetary Authority issued a statement
saying only that it would "continue to coordinate all parties
concerned in Macau to properly deal with this issue within the
parameters of existing legislations."


But McCormack told AFP there had been a separate verbal statement
by the Macau spokeswoman confirming that the North Korean
accounts at the BDA bank had been unblocked.


McCormack also indicated that Washington would allow some
flexibility in dealing with the 60-day deadline set in the
February 13 agreement under which North Korea pledged to shut and
seal Yongyong and begin the process of complete denuclearization
in exchange for fuel and other aid.


He said that with only four days remaining to the deadline, there
could be technical difficulties in shutting down the reactor.


"You're bumping up against the technical ability to do that
safely," he said. "We'll see where we are at on Saturday," he
said.


"Everybody should act in such a way that they intend to meet the
60-day deadline," he said, stopping short of insisting that the
North Koreans complete the reactor shutdown by Saturday.


North Korea has said it will allow inspectors from the UN nuclear
watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, back into the
country to monitor its compliance with the February 13 agreement.


McCormack said that with the BDA issue resolved, negotiations
should resume on the details of dismantling North Korea's nuclear
weapons program.


"The the focus can return to the core subject of the six-party
talks, and that is the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula,"
he said.


Washington's top negotiator with North Korea, Assistant Secretary
of State Christopher Hill, was touring the region Tuesday and
could meet with his North Korean counterpart during a stop in
Beijing later this week, McCormack said, adding that the
encounter was not yet officially scheduled.


Hill was in Seoul Tuesday after a stop in Japan.

