

Ugly pre-match clashes between police and AS Roma fans marred
Manchester United's stunning 7-1 Champions League victory at Old
Trafford on Tuesday night.


Police and fans clashed briefly outside the ground ahead of a
tense quarter- final, second leg tie which turned out to be one
of the greatest European performances ever seen at Old Trafford.


Up to 100 people were involved in the flare-up shortly before
kick-off although a Greater Manchester Police spokesman told AFP
there had been only "a minor disturbance between a small number
of people".


Greater Manchester Police later confirmed that 18 people had been
arrested as a result of the trouble but that there were no
reported injuries.


"Officers policing the Manchester United versus Roma match have
dealt with a number of isolated incidents outside the ground
prior to kick-off," a police spokeswoman said.


"The incidents have been resolved quickly and at this stage there
have been no reports of any injuries."


Manchester United reached the semi-finals of the Champions League
with an 8-3 aggregate victory.


Witnesses said that Manchester United fans had tried to rile
Italian ones but the police intervened swiftly to prevent
trouble.


Television pictures showed officers circling crowds with batons
and dogs as well as some missiles being thrown at police. Fans
were later shown being escorted into the ground just over an hour
before the match started.


Before the match, two Roma fans said they were too afraid to go
inside Old Trafford for fear of being harmed after the match.


Alessandro Pinci, 53, said that he and his 24-year-old son Matteo
had to "stand there and shield ourselves as the bottles came
flying at us."


"This is not football. We do not want to go inside and watch the
game because if we happen to win the tie then it will be war
outside afterwards."


At last week's clash in Rome, which Roma won 2-1, several United
fans needed hospital treatment after being stabbed before the
match and Italian police baton-charged the visiting supporters
during the first half.


Some 3,800 Italian fans arrived on 14 planes Tuesday and there
was no trouble in downtown Manchester this afternoon.

