

Manchester United booked their place in the Champions League
semi-finals with a breathtaking display of attacking football
that destroyed AS Roma 7-1 in the last eight, second leg on
Tuesday.


Sir Alex Ferguson's side hit three goals in just seven minutes
early in the first half through Michael Carrick, Alan Smith and
Wayne Rooney in a stunning opening to what must go down as one of
the greatest European performances ever seen at Old Trafford.


Cristiano Ronaldo was in unstoppable form, scoring a goal either
side of half- time, and Carrick and Patrice Evra were also on
target after the break as Roma completely capitulated in the face
of the sustained United onslaught, going out 8-3 on aggregate.


United had trailed 2-1 from the first leg a week ago and much had
been made of their five past failures to overturn a first leg
deficit in the Champions League.


That defeat in Rome had been followed by another loss against
Portsmouth on Saturday, prompting suggestions that United were
losing their nerve with the finish line in sight.


But the Premiership leaders gave the perfect response with their
biggest win of the season and will face either AC Milan or Bayern
Munich in their first Champions League semi-final since 2002.


The treble remains a distinct possibility for Ferguson's team if
they continue to produce performances of this quality.


With so much at stake there was never any danger of the
atmosphere being anything less than red hot, but pre-match
skirmishes outside the stadium as police tried to keep rival fans
apart raised the temperature even higher.


Although Roma only needed a draw to go through they weren't
content to sit on their lead and Francesco Totti fired just wide
after six minutes.


But the Italians' attacking intent was naive as it gave United
spaces to exploit and Carrick took advantage in the 12th minute.


He collected Ronaldo's pass and strode forward, and with Roma's
defenders backing off, had time to look up and drive in a shot
that wrong-footed Doni as it looped into the top corner.


That goal sparked wild celebrations around Old Trafford but it
was nothing compared to the roar that greeted their second just
five minutes later.


Ryan Giggs's astute pass picked out Smith and the United striker
kept his nerve to delicatley lift a shot over Doni for his first
goal since November 2005.


Roma were shellshocked by United's blistering start and it was no
surprise when the hosts got a third goal in the 19th minute.


Giggs surged down the right wing and whipped a low cross into the
penalty area for Rooney to flick home from close range.


United were now firmly in control of the tie and Ronaldo was
narrowly off target with a fierce 25-yard strike.


Carrick went close when his header was parried by Doni, but
United had no cause for concern as they got a fourth moments
later.


This time it was all down to the genius of Ronaldo. The
Portuguese winger is odds on to be voted player of the year in
England and he underlined exactly why in the 44th minute when he
surged into the area and drove a perfectly placed shot beyond
Doni.


Combining slick passing with finely honed movement off the ball,
United were running rings around the visitors and were determined
to rub it in after half- time.


Rooney tried an audacious chip from the halfway line that drifted
just wide before Ronaldo turned in a Giggs cross from close range
in the 49th minute to pile on the misery for Roma.


But United weren't finished there. Carrick had hardly been a
regular scorer since his pre-season move from Tottenham but he
scored his second fine goal of the night in the 60th minute with
a long range strike that gave Doni no chance.


Daniele De Rossi volleyed in Totti's cross after 69 minutes but
it was no consolation for a totlally demoralised Roma.


Their humiliation was completed by Evra in the 81st minute when
he drove home from the edge of the area.


The defeat was Roma's heaviest in their 23 appearances in Europe,
and worst since they fell 4-0 at East German side Carl Zeiss Jena
in 1980.


It was also the biggest loss for an Italian club since Juventus
fell 7-0 in the European Cup at Vienna in 1958.

