

World oil prices rebounded on Tuesday after plunging a day
earlier on profit- taking, as key crude producer Iran again
tested Western nerves, analysts said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 38 cents to close at 61.89 dollars a
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery
added 83 cents to 67.42 dollars a barrel.


The gap between the Brent and New York contracts -- at about five
dollars -- is at a record margin owing to oversupply in the
central United States, dealers said.


The New York contract had dived 2.77 dollars and Brent shed 1.28
dollars on Monday, as investors banked profits in light post-
Easter trade.


"The lack of follow through indicates that yesterday's move was
overdone and probably technical in nature," Fimat analyst John
Kilduff said.


"Crude oil futures were higher as the market recovered on news
that Iran is stepping up its nuclear enrichment program despite
UN sanctions and calls from the West not to do so," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


"The release of 15 UK military personnel last week had helped to
calm tensions between the West and Iran, but the Iranian
announcement yesterday (Monday) that it had increased the number
of centrifuges it is using in order to make nuclear material on
an industrial scale has alarmed the market."


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
pledged to expand its nuclear drive after announcing that its
activities had entered an industrial phase, sparking new
criticism from the West and renewed calls for negotiation.


Iran is aiming to have 50,000 centrifuges running, said Gholam
Reza Aghazadeh, head of Iran's atomic energy organization.


The Islamic republic insists its nuclear drive is solely intended
to generate energy, while the United States accuses it of seeking
a nuclear weapon.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran may disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder at the United Nations.


"The market is also being supported by expectations of another
draw (fall) in US gasoline stocks," added Davies.


The US Department of Energy was set Wednesday to publish its
weekly snapshot of crude oil inventories in the United States
over the past week.


US gasoline reserves, which are being closely watched ahead of
the American driving season, fell five million barrels to 205.2
million in the week to March 30, against a forecast drawdown of
300,000 barrels.


The sharper-than-expected fall is heightening concerns ahead of
the US summer when many Americans take to the road on vacation.


"Another rash of refinery glitches over the last several days
indicates refiners are still having a hard time building up
gasoline stocks, which we suspect will eventually end up
supporting higher prices across the whole complex," Fimat's
Kilduff said.

