

The planned takeover of Puma by French luxury goods group PPR,
announced Tuesday, crowns a spectacular turnaround of the German
maker of sportswear and equipment over the past decade and a half
under the captaincy of its chief executive Jochen Zeitz.


Since Zeitz took over the helm at Puma in 1993, he has managed to
steer the company from near-bankruptcy to a record-breaking run
of profits that now looks set to win Puma a place in the
prestigious PPR stable alongside exclusive brands such Gucci and
Yves Saint Laurent.


And while Puma, with annual sales of 2.7 billion euros (3.6
billion dollars), is considered to be too small on its own to
take on arch rivals, Nike and Adidas, the tie-up with Pinault-
Printemps-Redoute will transform the German group into a world
leader in the lucrative sports lifestyle sector.


Although the two German companies are fierce rivals today, Puma
and Adidas actually have common parentage.


The Dassler brothers Adi and Rudi set up a sports shoe factory in
the town of Herzogenaurach in south Germany in 1924.


But the two brothers fell out in 1948 and decided to go their
separate ways, with Adi setting up Adidas and Rudi founding Puma,
both in Herzogenaurach.


And while Adidas quickly established a lead which it held for the
next 40 years by concentrating on the mass markets, Puma focussed
on making sports equipment for professionals.


When Zeitz arrived in 1993, family-run Puma was close to
bankruptcy.


A former marketing manager at Colgate, the then 30-year-old
executive set about turning the company around, slashing costs by
relocating production to Asia.


And he embarked on a fundamental re-marketing of the Puma brand,
transforming it into such a sought-after label that by 1998 stars
such as Madonna and Cameron Diaz were wearing Puma sports apparel
with the sleek and powerful big-cat logo.


Following its succcessful turnaround, Puma has been able to
double profits since 2003 and open boutiques in the ultra-chic
Marais quarter of Paris.


It supplies the soccer kits of dozens of African football teams
and scored a spectacular goal by sponsoring the Italian national
team, which won the 2006 World Cup soccer championships.


In terms of profits, Puma has scored a 10-year run of record
results, enabling the share price to soar from around 60 euros to
340 euros at the moment.


Admittedly, bottom-line profits fell by 8.0 percent to 263
million euros last year, not least as a result of the World Cup
marketing costs. But the group's order book is full and analysts
are confident about the group's future.


In fact, it was precisely its high level of profitability that
sparked persistent takeover speculation, with industry experts
even recently suggesting that rival Nike was squaring up to
launch a bid.


Commenting on PPR's 5.7-billion-euro takeover bid on Tuesday, CEO
Zeitz said that Puma would benefit from "PPR's global
positioning, strong portfolio of premium brands and expertise in
the retail business."


As one of the world's top fashion and retail companies, "PPR will
be the perfect partner for Puma," Zeitz said.


"Both companies have a European background and ideally complement
each other with regard to their global perspective. With the
support of PPR, we plan to strengthen our position as the leading
company in the sports lifestyle market with a continued focus on
long-term sustainable growth," he said.

