

Iran pledged on Tuesday to further expand its nuclear drive after
announcing that its activities had entered an industrial phase,
sparking new criticism from the West and renewed calls for
negotiation.


Shrugging off the latest warning from the United States, the head
of Iran's atomic energy organisation reaffirmed Tehran's ultimate
aim of installing 50,000 centrifuges to enrich uranium.


"The objective of the Islamic Republic of Iran is not just the
installation of 3,000 centrifuges at the Natanz plant but we are
doing everything to install 50,000 centrifuges," said Gholam Reza
Aghazadeh, according to the state-run IRNA agency.


In a grand ceremony at the Natanz enrichment plant in central
Iran on Monday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced that the
country was now able to enrich uranium on an industrial scale.


Enrichment is the key sticking point in the standoff between Iran
and the West as it can produce nuclear fuel but in highly
extended form can also make the fissile core for an atomic bomb.


The United States, Israel and other countries suspect Iran is
seeking nuclear weapons, but Tehran insists its nuclear drive is
solely aimed at generating energy.


Ahmadinejad did not give figures on how far the nuclear programme
has advanced, and diplomats in Tehran pointed to confusion over
exactly how many uranium- enriching centrifuges it had installed.


"I did not understand what they were talking about," said one
diplomat, who asked not to be named. "There seems a certain
confusion about the technical aspects of the announcements.


"Ahmadinejad really meant that Iran had announced it has the
capacity to pass into an industrial phase rather than it had
actually got there."


Iran has so far only confirmed that it has two cascades of 164
centrifuges at Natanz. Monday's announcement was seen as
signalling that it now has considerably more than this figure.


But the notion that Tehran has already reached its medium-term
aim of installing 3,000 centrifuges "is simply not credible",
said another Western diplomat.


Aghazadeh explained Tehran's reluctance to give any figures over
the progress of its nuclear programme by saying it did not want
to create "ambiguities".


"I did not want people to say that Iran has finished installing
3,000 centrifuges and everything has been completed now," he
explained.


Russia, which has been building Iran's first nuclear power plant
in the southern city of Bushehr, also warned against seeing any
"breakthrough" in Ahmadinejad's announcement.


"We do not know of any recent technological breakthroughs in the
Iranian nuclear programme that would change the character of the
work in the field of enrichment," foreign ministry spokesman
Mikhail Kamynin said in a statement.


In Berlin, the German presidency of the European Union said on
Tuesday that Iran's claim to be producing enriched uranium on an
industrial scale was a "direct contradiction" of two binding UN
Security Council resolutions calling on Iran to cease all
enrichment activities.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it sanctions under those resolutions.


"The presidency of the EU once again urges Iran to comply with
the demands of the international community and to create the
conditions for a return to the negotiating table and for a
solution to the conflict surrounding the Iranian nuclear
programme."


For his part, French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy said
in Paris that Iran's nuclear news was a "bad sign" and also
called for a return to negotiations.


"I deplore the announcements made yesterday, which are a bad
sign," he said in a statement. "I once again urge Iran to respect
Security Council resolutions, which demand the suspension of all
sensitive nuclear activities."


A team of inspectors from the IAEA arrived in Iran on Tuesday on
a pre-planned week-long visit that will see them visit the Natanz
nuclear plant, the Fars news agency reported.


Their confidential report is likely to contain the figures that
were lacking from Ahmadinejad's announcement.


The United States lost little time in voicing its worries, with
national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe saying on Monday: "We
are very concerned about Iran's announcement that they entered an
'industrial stage' of nuclear fuel production."


But Iran was standing by its refusal to suspend enrichment.


"The suspension of enrichment is not acceptable either as a
precondition to negotiations or as a result of such talks,"
Foreign Minister Manouchehr Mottaki told reporters.

