

The dollar lost ground Tuesday amid fears of growing US trade
friction with China while the euro hit a record high against the
yen as the so-called carry trade gained momentum, dealers said.


The sagging yen threw up a fresh challenge to Group of Seven
finance ministers, set to meet in Washington this week to
consider the currency slide seen as a key imbalance in the global
economy.


The euro was trading at 1.3428 dollars at 2100 GMT against 1.3354
on Monday in New York.


The euro jumped at one point to 160.12 yen, a new record high
since the creation of the single currency, and then settled back
to 159.97 from 159.33 in New York late on Monday.


The dollar dipped to 119.02 yen from 119.29 on Monday, with the
greenback failing to gain even after the Bank of Japan decided to
keep interest rates unchanged.


The US currency was feeling the impact of Washington's latest
decision to bring China to the World Trade Organization for
piracy and copyright violations. Some fear retaliation by China
that could hurt the US economy and global trade.


The announcement in Washington was followed by comments by
members of the Chinese government who "returned the symbolic blow
with harsh language that sent the dollar plummeting," said John
Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


"When Chinese officials caught wind of the filings, they quickly
responded with public statements that unnerved currency traders,"
Kicklighter said.


"An official from the Ministry of Commerce said that they were
'strongly dissatisfied' over the complaints. Far more pressing,
and perhaps prophetic, the same person said the filing would
'seriously undermine the cooperative relations the two nations
have established, and will adversely affect bilateral economic
and trade ties.'"


The dollar's woes prompted more flows in the single European
currency.


The euro since May 2006 has risen 13.5 percent against the yen
while the dollar has gained 9.0 percent against the Japanese
currency, a trend largely reflecting interest rates in Japan that
are substantially lower than those in the eurozone and the United
States.


Japanese rates are currently at 0.50 percent compared with 3.75
percent in the eurozone and 5.25 percent in the United States.


The differentials encourage what are known as "carry trades," in
which traders borrow money cheaply in Japan that is then invested
in higher-yielding currencies.


The degree of risk inherent in such a strategy, as well as the
weakness of the yen, has unsettled European members of the Group
of Seven who fear that a declining yen -- and appreciating euro
-- will leave eurozone exports more expensive and less
competitive on world markets.


At their last meeting in Germany in early February the G7
ministers -- representing Britain, Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan and the United States -- issued a statement warning
against the risks of the carry trade.


But for Julian Jessop, an analyst with Capital Economics, such
comments carry little weight.


"G7 comments will not make any difference, especially as they are
not backed by any hard action," he said.


Despite pressure from eurozone officials, who had hoped for a
stronger signal, the G7 statement in Germany made no specific
mention of the weakening yen.


But dealers were nonetheless looking ahead to the G7 gathering in
Washington on Friday.


"The Europeans are still concerned about the strength of the euro
against the yen and we cannot rule out the possibility that the
EU members may speak out about it ahead of the G7 meeting," said
Hidenori Kato, head of foreign exchange sales and trading at
Societe Generale.


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2164 Swiss francs
after 1.2264 Monday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9726 dollars from 1.9619.

