

A woman veiled in black and strapped with explosives blew herself
up outside a police station in Iraq on Tuesday, killing 16
people, many of them volunteering to join the police force.


The bombing hit the restive town of Muqdadiyah, in the flashpoint
province of Diyala that has become Iraq's second danger hotspot
after Baghdad where five people died in a car bombing and Iraqi
forces clashed with insurgents.


Police First Lieutenant Mohammed Ahmed said the woman detonated
her charge amid a group of people at a kiosk opposite a police
station where would-be recruits were buying application forms to
join the security force.


Another 32 people were wounded, local police said.


Interior ministry spokesman Brigadier General Abdul Karim Khalaf
confirmed that the bomber had dressed in the all-enveloping
traditional black abaya, worn by women in the area, cloaking them
from head to toe.


In another attack in the province, three people were killed when
four mortar rounds hit a house in the village of Shaima, police
said.


The violence was the latest evidence of stepped up insurgent and
sectarian killings outside Baghdad where a massive nearly two-
month US-Iraqi security crackdown has seen American officials
boast about signs of progress.


Although execution-style killings have fallen drastically in
Baghdad, car bombings have continued. The latest killed five
people on Tuesday near Baghdad University, Iraq's biggest and
oldest institute of higher education.


Another 10 people were wounded. A rocket also slammed into a
school on Palestine Street killing one pupil, the headteacher
said.


The only Christian in the school, the boy was hit as he played
alone outside while his Muslim classmates attended a religious
lesson inside.


Elsewhere, sporadic volleys of gunfire pounded across the central
Al-Fadhel district of Baghdad where security forces were raiding
insurgent hideouts.


An Iraqi soldier and a civilian were killed in the raid and 17
others wounded, including two soldiers, a security official and a
medic said.


Insurgents in Baghdad opened fire on two US combat helicopters, a
Black Hawk and an Apache. The military specified that one
incident happened over Rusafa, a wider district that spans Al-
Fadhel.


"Two helicopters have received small arms fire. Both helicopters
returned safely to base," Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver
said. "Both were in the central Baghdad area."


Facing its toughest time in Iraq, the US military is under
pressure from sustained attacks by insurgents and militias, and
also faces rising calls for troops to withdraw, both back home
and in Iraq itself.


It reported the deaths of four more soldiers, three killed in two
roadside bomb blasts in Baghdad and the fourth in the restive Al-
Anbar province, a known hotbed for Sunni insurgents and Al-Qaeda
militants.


The latest fatalities brought to 45 the US military's losses this
month, according to www.icasualties.org, linked to press releases
from the US military and Department of Defence.


Speaking from Japan, where he has secured 850 million dollars
worth of loans from the world's second largest economy, Iraqi
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki rejected demands for a timetable
for foreign troops to leave his country.


"We feel what will govern the departure of the multinational
forces are the achievements and victories we manage to obtain on
the ground and not a timetable," Maliki told reporters in Tokyo.


On Monday, the military witnessed the strongest protest yet
against its four- year presence in Iraq when a massive Shiite
rally, which police numbered at tens of thousands, in the holy
city of Najaf called for US troops to leave.


In the simmering northern oil hub of Kirkuk, an Iraqi soldier was
killed by gunmen on an army base and a member of the Kurdish
Democratic Party was stabbed to death north of the city
overnight, said police Captain Mahmud Abdullah.


Three policemen were also killed when their patrol was hit by a
roadside bomb near the northern city of Tikri, police said.

