

Moroccan security forces killed one militant Tuesday and another
blew himself up during a raid in Casablanca, police said.


The pair were killed in a dawn raid in the el Fida district of
the port city as part of an operation to find suspects in a March
11 bomb attack on an Internet cafe. Police said both were
carrying explosives.


"The police were looking for three men who were involved in the
bombing and they ringed the house at night," said Mohamed
Mouadab, Casablanca's deputy police chief, told journalists.


"One of the two was hit by bullets and died from his injuries
while the other blew himself up just as police officers were in
the process of arresting him," a police statement said.


An officer at the scene said there were three suspects hiding in
the house.


"At around 5:00 am one of them came into the street with a sword.
The police fired a warning shot, which he failed to obey. They
then fired a second shot before he could activate the explosives
that he was carrying," the officer said.


He said another suspect came onto the balcony after hearing the
shots. Seeing the house surrounded, he blew himself up.


The area was sealed off as police staged a door-to-door search
for the third suspect who fled, said the officer, who declined to
be identified.


Unconfirmed reports by investigators said the third man is the
brother of Abdelfettah Raydi, the bomber who died in the March 11
attack on the cybercafe in which Raydi's accomplice and three
customers in the cafe.


Thirty-one people have been arrested since.


Experts on Islamic terrorists said it was becoming clear that
extremists were ready to kill themselves at any time rather than
face arrest.


"It's for the second time that the same scenario has occurred. To
avoid arrest, the jihadists have opted for death by detonating
arms strapped to their waist," Mohamed Darif, a specialist on
Islamism in Morocco, told AFP.


Darif said Raydi, who blew himself up when the owner of the
Internet cafe threatened to detain him, was in all probability
"following the orders that  Al- Qaeda's number two Ayman al-
Zawahari has given to his operatives."


"It is difficult to imagine that these groups do not have any
links, either direct or indirect with others overseas -- not only
ideologically but logistically," he said.


According to Moroccan investigators, the cybercafe was not the
target of the March 11 attack. The two suicide bombers had merely
gone there to receive orders through the Internet.


They have ruled out that the men had links with foreign groups
but a source told AFP that investigators felt that "a terrorist
group is being formed and funded by Moroccans with the aim of
carrying out bombings at Casablanca port and several police
stations."


Mohamed Tozi, a professor of political science and sociology at
Casablanca's Hassan II University, said although Islamic
terrorists were ready for kamikaze- style attacks there was a
"great weakness in organisation and logistics."


"This is worrying and reassuring at the same time," he said.
"Worrying because they can improve upon their structures and
become very dangerous and reassuring because they are finding it
difficult to merge into society and hide themselves."

