

A police hunt for three suicide bombers in the city of Casablanca
cost the life of one policeman Tuesday as two suspects blew
themselves up and the security forces killed a third.


A dawn operation in the el Fida district of the port city led to
the first confrontation in small hours of the morning, in which
two suspects died. One was shot dead police and the other blew
himself up.


Later in the afternoon, a police inspector died after a third man
blew himself up in the same district. Two other police officers
and a child were also hurt, an AFP journalist saw.


In the earlier operation, Moroccan police found the suspects
after surrounding a house as part of an operation to find
suspects in the March 11 bomb attack on an Internet cafe.


At around 5:00 am (0500 GMT) one of the suspects had come out of
the house armed with a sabre and wearing a belt of explosives.


"The police fired a warning shot, which he failed to obey. They
then fired a second shot before he could activate the explosives
he was carrying," said an officer.


The second suspect came onto the balcony after hearing the shots.
Seeing the house surrounded, he blew himself up.


The area was sealed off as police staged a door-to-door search
for a third suspect who fled, said the officer, who declined to
be identified.


The second incident later Tuesday happened just 150 metres from
the spot of the first explosion, as police were continuing their
door-to-door search of the district.


A police statement identified the man they had shot dead in the
morning as Mohamed Mentala, alias Warda.


"The suicide bomber who killed himself in the morning is called
Mohamed Rachidi," the police statement added.


Mentala was wanted in connection with the May 2003 bombings in
Casablanca, the worst in Morocco's history, which killed 45
people including 12 suicide bombers, and leaving dozens injured.


But all three men were wanted in connection with the March 11
attack on an Internet cafe, said police.


The apartment where the two men were cornered early Tuesday had
been rented two months earlier by Rachidi, the owner, Mme Saadia,
told AFP.


In the attack on the Internet cafe, the bomber, Abdelfettah
Raydi, died and his suspected accomplice and three customers were
injured. Thirty-one people have already been arrested in the
course of that investigation.


Investigators believe that the Internet cafe was not the intended
target of the attack, but was simply where some of the attackers
met to maintain contact online, a source told AFP.


Investigators have ruled out that the men had links with foreign
groups.


"A terrorist group is being formed and funded by Moroccans with
the aim of carrying out bombings at Casablanca port and several
police stations," the source added.


But Mohamed Darif, a specialist on Islamism in Morocco, told AFP:
"It is difficult to imagine that this group did not have any
foreign links.


"On the contrary, it seems that they apply the order given by
Ayman al Zawahri, the number two in al-Qaeda, to blow yourself up
rather than fall into the hands of the police," he added.


Al-Qaeda recently announced that it had set up a cell in north
Africa.


Mohamed Tozi, a professor of political science and sociology at
Casablanca's Hassan II University, said although Islamic
terrorists were ready for kamikaze- style attacks there was a
"great weakness in organisation and logistics."


"This is worrying and reassuring at the same time," he said.
"Worrying because they can improve upon their structures and
become very dangerous and reassuring because they are finding it
difficult to merge into society and hide themselves."

