

The European Union on Tuesday urged Tehran not to defy the United
Nations, increasing international diplomatic pressure on Tehran
after its claim that it could enrich uranium on an industrial
scale.


"The Presidency of the European Union has noted with great
concern the announcement by Iran that it intends to begin uranium
enrichment on an industrial scale," said a statement.


That would be in breach of two binding UN Security Council
resolutions 1737 and 1747 and would also run against repeated
requests made by the International Atomic Energy Agency, it
continued.


"The presidency of the EU once again urges Iran to comply with
the demands of the international community and to create the
conditions for a return to the negotiating table and for a
solution to the conflict surrounding the Iranian nuclear
programme."


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced on Monday that
the country had set up an "industrial scale" operation to enrich
uranium.


Experts said this would mean operating around 3,000 centrifuges
to produce enriched uranium -- nearly 10 times the number Iran
had previously declared.


Uranium enrichment is the key sticking point in the row between
Iran and the West because the process can also make the fissile
core for an atomic bomb. The western powers accuse Tehran of
seeking to make nuclear arms while Tehran insists it is for power
generation only.


Russia's took a more restrained line. A foreign ministry said
Tuesday that for the moment it saw no evidence that Iran had made
the breakthrough it claims in its nuclear fuel enrichment
programme.


"We do not know of any recent technological breakthroughs in the
Iranian nuclear programme that would change the character of the
work in the field of enrichment," ministry spokesman Mikhail
Kamynin said.


But French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste-Blazy on Tuesday
called it "a bad sign".


He added: "I once again urge Iran to respect Security Council
resolutions, which demand the suspension of all sensitive nuclear
activities."


Tehran should "seize the opportunity to open a dialogue (with the
five Security Council members plus Germany) that was offered to
it in the statement from the six ministers at the adoption of
resolution 1747."


Britain and the United States had already issued robust reponses.


The United States on Monday said making good on Ahmadinejad's
claim would expose Iran to tougher international pressure.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said Iran was "almost
completely encircled by the international community because of
their actions, and that pressure is only going to increase if
they persist."


A British Foreign Office spokesman said Monday that Iran's latest
declaration was a further breach of IAEA and UN resolutions.


Iran defiance of Western calls to suspend enrichment have earned
it two sets of UN sanctions since December.


One US-based analyst also expressed doubt as to whether Iran has
begun to enrich uranium with their larger array of centrifuges.


"The purpose today was to publicly state that they had the
centrifuges," said David Albright, a former UN nuclear inspector
and now president of the Washington-based Institute for Science
and International Security.


"It would be a big surprise though if they did start to enrich,"
he said, arguing that putting the centrifuges into action would
"seriously reduce their chances of having any meaningful
negotiations with the Europeans."


"I think they're holding back."


Talks between the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier
Solana, and Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, are
expected to resume soon, though dates have not been announced.


Solana's office said on Tuesday that there was no way to verify
Iran's claims unless international inspections were resumed.

