

The African Union on Tuesday readmitted Mauritania to the pan-
African organisation from which it was suspended after a coup in
2005, an AU spokesman told AFP.


"Mauritania is readmitted to the AU with full rights," said
Assane Ba at AU headquarters.


In a statement, the AU Peace and Security Council said it had
decided "to lift the suspension measure taken against Mauritania"
on August 4, 2005 when the military overturned the regime of
Maaouiya Ould Taya.


The decision came less than two weeks after Mauritania's
constitutional council officially confirmed Sidi Ould Cheikh
Abdallahi as the country's first democratically elected president
since independence.


Ould Abdallahi is a 69-year-old former political prisoner and ex-
government minister who won 52.85 percent of the votes in a
second round presidential run- off against Ahmed Ould Daddah last
month.


Ba said that observers had judged the election "free and
transparent".


The AU council lifted sanctions imposed on Mauritania after the
August 2005 coup and thanked the members of the country's
military council for having stood by their pledge of democractic
rule, he added.


In the statement, the AU council noted "with satisfaction" the
country's developments since the coup d'etat and "the smooth
conduct of the process of democratic transition, which culminated
in the presidential elections of 11 and 25 March 2007 and marked
the return to constitutional order."


The council urged Ould Abdallahi "to spare no effort to
consolidate the gains of the transition, strengthen the rule of
law and good governance, deepen the democratic process and take
all appropriate measures to reinforce national unity and
cohesion," the AU statement said.


Ould Abdallahi is the first democratically elected president in
Mauritania, a largely desert country in north-west Africa, since
independence in 1960.


Previous presidents have seized power by force, and have been re-
elected in the first round of elections marred by fraud.


The AU called on member states and foreign donors "to provide all
the necessary support to the newly elected authorities," the
statement said.


In addition, AU Commission Chairman Alpha Oumar Konare should
"support the efforts of the newly elected authorities," added the
statement.

