

England batsman Ian Bell wants his teammates to rediscover the
secret of their one-day success in Australia if they are to
salvage their stuttering World Cup campaign.


England need to win their three remaining Super Eights matches,
starting with Bangladesh here on Wednesday, if they are to have
any hope of reaching the semi- finals.


Bell, one of the few England batsmen to make runs in the
tournament, insists his teammates can battle back after
successive defeats to Sri Lanka and Australia and has reminded
them of how they recovered from a 5-0 Ashes mauling to beat the
Aussies to win the CB Series on the eve of the World Cup.


That success, after a dismal start, involved winning four matches
on the trot - one against New Zealand and three against the world
champions.


"It's a similar situation here to the one in Australia," said
Bell.


"Now we've got to win every game and every game is a final. I
think as a team it's good that we can break it down now to what
we need to do."


Bell, who made 77 in the seven-wicket loss to Australia in
Antigua on Sunday, celebrates his 25th birthday here on Wednesday
but knows there is plenty of work to do.


After Bangladesh, who have already defeated India and South
Africa so far, England still have to meet South Africa and West
Indies.


"It helps that we've been through this before quite recently and
probably helps the team that we didn't get too sidetracked on
things that were going on further ahead."


Bell said he was delighted to have made runs against Australia
where he was promoted to open the batting.


"It was nice to get out there and play the way I know I can
play," said Bell.


"I enjoyed it and now I want to continue it for the rest of the
Super Eights."


Bell said England were still confident they can make the semi-
finals, a stage the English haven't reached since 1992.


"We know we have the players who can do it," said Bell. "We have
to put in the performances and not just in patches."


England will play all three of their remaining Super Eights
matches at the Kensington Oval here and that suits Bell and his
teammates.


"The pitch here will have more pace and that should help our fast
bowlers. In Guyana, it suited the spinners and medium pacers.
That should help us more than Bangladesh."

