

Pakistan said Tuesday it had blocked the website and radio
station of a radical mosque that has launched a Taliban-style
morality campaign in the heart of the capital.


The move comes after the Lal Masjid or Red Mosque in Islamabad
issued a "fatwa" against a female minister pictured hugging a
foreigner following a charity paragliding trip, and also
threatened to carry out suicide attacks.


"We have blocked the website of Lal Masjid and also blocked the
radio station," Deputy Information Minister Tariq Azeem told AFP.


Azeem said the government blocked the website (www.lalmasjid.org)
and the illegal FM radio station under laws brought in five years
ago by President Pervez Musharraf, a key US ally and proponent of
moderate Islam.


"We will block anything that promotes religious hatred, calls for
suicide attacks -- this cannot be tolerated. The law says that no
such activity can be allowed. This website was projecting what
was prohibited by law," he said.


Deputy mosque leader Abdul Rashid Ghazi denied there was hate
material on the website. "They have curbed freedom of expression
by blocking our site. They cannot tolerate a dissenting voice,"
he told AFP.


Ghazi said the website was now operating from a different domain
(www.lalmasjid.com) -- although the government insisted that it
had made it impossible for the mosque to update the new site.


Mosque leader Abdul Aziz said on Friday that Lal Masjid was
setting up a self- styled Islamic court and warned that his
students would carry out suicide attacks if the government tried
to clamp down on him or his followers.


Two days later the court issued the "fatwa" against Tourism
Minister Nilofar Bakhtiar for posing in "obscene" pictures with a
French instructor after going paragliding to raise money for
earthquake victims.


Female students from a religious school attached to the Red
Mosque in March kidnapped an alleged brothel owner and made her
publicly repent. Their male counterparts briefly abducted two
policemen at the same time.


The mosque's baton-wielding devotees have also set up so-called
morality patrols telling shops at popular local markets not to
sell "un-Islamic" music and movies.


They have occupied a nearby children's library since January in
protest at plans to demolish several illegally-built mosques in
Islamabad.


The government has said it wants to negotiate with the mosque's
staff before trying to crack down on it, despite concerns that
its behaviour represents a creeping "Talibanisation" of Pakistani
society.

