

Russia accused US authorities Tuesday of refusing to grant a visa
to a leader of the separatist Georgian region of Abkhazia, who
wanted to attend a meeting at UN headquarters in New York.


The US State Department denied refusing a visa to Sergei Shamba,
saying the Abkhazian had withdrawn his application before any
decision had been made on the request.


Shamba, the "foreign minister" of separatist Abkhazia, had wanted
to attend a UN session as the text of a new resolution on the
territorial dispute was being drafted, said a Russian foreign
ministry statement.


It said the State Department's move effectively prevented an
informal meeting between the Abkhazian representative and UN
Security Council members on the eve of the talks.


Washington was "seriously abusing" the fact that the Security
Council headquarters was on their territory by refusing the visa,
the statement continued.


"The United States is trying to put the two parties to a conflict
on an unequal footing and thus to influence the negotiations,"
said the statement.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack rejected the charges.


"Basically, it comes down to the fact that Mr Shamba, who acts in
the capacity as the Abkhazian, quote, 'foreign minister,' applied
for a visa and then withdrew his application," McCormack told
reporters.


The Security Council is due to vote soon on a resolution
extending the mandate of a UN observer mission in Georgia.


Meanwhile at UN headquarters, Russian Ambassador Vitaly Churkin
accused Washington of pursuing a double standard policy since it
agreed last week to allow a representative of the breakaway
Serbian province of Kosovo to come as the future status of the
Albanian-majority territory was being debated.


During last week's consultations, the self-styled president of
Kosovo,  Fatmir Sejdiu, was allowed to address Security Council
members despite Russian objections.


US acting Ambassador Alejandro Wolff on Tuesday accused Churkin
of raising "false analogies with Kosovo in a mischievous effort
to complicate that discussion."


Recalling that the contentious Abkhaz issue was being discussed
within the Friends of Georgia group, of which Russia is a member,
he said Moscow was the only member of the group "that believes
the time is ripe for Mr Shamba to come to New York."


"The Russian proposal that Mr Shamba come to New York at this
time is particularly provocative and does not help the situation
on the ground," the US diplomat said.


Wolff also pointed to "an unexplained incident so far in the
Kodori valley in March that complicates the situation", a
reference Georgia's charges that Russian combat helicopters last
month fired on villages in the Kodori gorge, the only part of
Abkhazia still under Tbilisi's control.


McCormack said the United States, which strongly opposes Russian-
backed separatist movements in Abkhazia and the separate Georgian
region of South Ossetia, hoped the UN vote would be followed by
"sufficient progress toward an Abkhazian settlement" to merit
holding a conference on the territory's status.


He suggested a visit by Shamba would be more appropriate in the
event such a meeting was held.


"Essentially you have to solve a process issue in order for, in
our view, to merit his travel to the United States, to the UN,
for this meeting," he said.


Abkhazia, a sliver of land between the Black Sea and the Caucasus
mountains, broke away from Georgia after fierce fighting in
1992-93 and now has de facto independence.


The Abkhazian administration survives largely thanks to support
from Russia, which has provided Russian passports to Abkhazian
citizens and maintains a force of about 1,900 soldiers in the
province.


Since coming to power after the 2003 "Rose Revolution", Georgian
President Mikheil Saakashvili has stepped up efforts to reassert
control over Abkhazia and Georgia's other separatist enclave,
South Ossetia.

