

World oil prices rebounded on Tuesday after plunging a day
earlier on profit- taking, as key crude producer Iran again
tested Western nerves, analysts said.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May delivery added 71
cents to 67.30 dollars per barrel in London electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, gained 49 cents to 62.00 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


The difference between the Brent and New York -- at about five
dollars -- was at a record high owing to oversupply in the US
midcontinent, dealers said.


The New York contract had dived 2.77 dollars and Brent shed 1.28
dollars on Monday, as investors banked profits in light Easter
trade. However, they rebounded Tuesday.


"Crude oil futures were higher as the market recovered on news
that Iran is stepping up its nuclear enrichment programme despite
UN sanctions and calls from the West not to do so," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


"The release of 15 UK military personnel last week had helped to
calm tensions between the West and Iran, but the Iranian
announcement yesterday (Monday) that it had increased the number
of centrifuges it is using in order to make nuclear material on
an industrial scale has alarmed the market."


Iran, the world's fourth biggest producer of crude, on Tuesday
pledged to further expand its nuclear drive after announcing that
its activities had entered an industrial phase, sparking new
criticism from the West and renewed calls for negotiation.


Iran is aiming to have 50,000 centrifuges running, said Gholam
Reza Aghazadeh, head of Iran's atomic energy organisation.


The Islamic republic insists its nuclear drive is solely intended
to generate energy, while the United States accuses it of seeking
a nuclear weapon and has not ruled out a military attack.


Iran's defiance of Western calls for it to suspend enrichment
have already earned it two sets of UN sanctions but Tehran
appeared to be in no mood to halt the sensitive process.


There are concerns that Iran may disrupt its oil exports should
it be hit harder.


The increased tensions come just days after a potentially
explosive crisis with London was defused when Tehran announced it
had released 15 British sailors arrested on accusations of
trespassing in its waters.


Elsewhere on Tuesday, the market revisited concerns over tight US
gasoline or petrol supplies, dealers said.


The US Department of Energy was set Wednesday to publish its
weekly snapshot of crude oil inventories in the United States
over the past week.


US gasoline reserves, which are being closely watched ahead of
the American driving season, fell five million barrels to 205.2
million in the week to March 30, against a forecast drawdown of
300,000 barrels.


The sharper-than-expected fall is heightening concerns ahead of
the US summer when many Americans take to the road on vacation.


"The (oil) market is also being supported by expectations of
another draw in US gasoline stocks," added Sucden's Davies.

