

Kidnappers released on Tuesday a Japanese woman abducted nine
days ago with her boss, the head of Sun Myung Moon's Unification
Church in Paraguay, who is still being held, police said.


The release of secretary Sawako Takayama serves as the "proof of
life" demanded before friends would pay a 500,000-dollar ransom
that the kidnappers set for Hirokazu Ota, the head of the church
here, said deputy interior minister Mario Sapriza.


The secretary "is in fine shape," Sapriza said.


He said Sawako's release "is part of the negotiations" for Ota's
freedom.


Sawako was released outside Multiplaza Shopping center on the
outskirts of Asuncion and waited for half an hour before she
could flag down a taxi to take her home.


Investigators wondered how the woman could have been transported
from Ciudad del Este to Asuncion without being detected by police
roadblocks along the approximately 350-kilometer (215-mile)
stretch.


Two by-standers who witnessed the kidnapping were also snatched,
relatives of the couple said, so that they could not immediately
identify their captors.


Police officer Rafael Ramos Balmori and his girlfriend Nancy
Gimenez, who teaches school outside Asuncion, remain captives.
Her students demonstrated Monday and Tuesday for her release.


On Saturday, people close to Ota, 62, demanded some sign that the
victims were alive, after their April 1 kidnapping in Caaguazu,
about 200 kilometers (120 miles) east of the capital, Asuncion.


An elite police unit has focused on Paraguay's border with Brazil
and Argentina, 330 kilometers (205 miles) east of Asuncion.


The porous tri-border region is a remote, hard-to-patrol haven
for smugglers and other criminals.


Police stepped up highway patrols on the weekend, especially
along the road leading to the tourist town, Ciudad del Este.


Investigators said the kidnappers may have taken advantage of
heavy traffic during Easter to move to a safer location.


Investigators suspect highly trained former police officers fired
for breach of duty might be behind the kidnappings.


Ota, who has lived in Paraguay for 10 years, is the president of
Victoria SA, a company that manages land assets in Paraguay owned
by other members of the South Korea-based church.


Pyung Rae Moon, who represents her uncle's church in Latin
America, spoke with top law enforcement behind the investigation,
but did not release details of the conversation.


Prosecutors offered a 20,000-dollar reward to information on
Ota's whereabouts.

