

Kenyan government and opposition lawmakers on Tuesday met for the
first time in 14 months in a fresh attempt to rewrite the
country's constitution ahead of general elections expected later
this year.


The parliamentary committee to oversee the revision of the
constitution will be made up of 14 government lawmakers, 13 from
the opposition and three other ex- official members, Vice
President Moody Awori said in a statement.


"We have had our first preliminary meeting of MPs to prepare a
roadmap to jump- start discussions on the constitution to see
that necessary minimum reforms are enacted to make the general
elections to be held a neutral ground," Awori said.


"We discussed how the committee will carry out its business
because the matter is so important, we would like consensus to
guide us."


Civil societies are planning to organise nationwide protests
ahead of December's presidential, parliamentary and civic polls
if they are excluded from the review.


But Awori, who will co-chair the committee with opposition leader
Uhuru Kenyatta, said the panel will hammer out a formula to
accommodate them and assured that the groups would be represented
at its next meeting.


Kenyatta, who is also a presidential aspirant and who lost to
President Mwai Kibaki in the December 2002 general elections,
said he hoped the review would end in good time to pave the way
for campaigning.


"We will be able to conclude this process in the shortest
possible time," he said.


During Tuesday's meeting, the opposition Orange Democratic
Movement-Kenya (ODM-K) coalition vowed to abandon the meeting if
Justice and Constitutional Affairs Minister Martha Karua was
elected to co-chair the committee in Awori's absence.


ODM-K lawmaker Otieno Kajwan'g accused her of being a pro-
government "activist", telling reporters: "She cannot be a
chairman and an activist at the same time, in fact in our view,
she is the stumbling block.


"If it is a must that she must be the chairman, then he (the
president) should know that from now on, there will be no talks."


Kibaki came to power chiefly on a platform of rewriting the
country's basic law, but failed to make good his pre-election
pledge to deliver this within 100 days of his leadership.


In November 2005, nearly 60 percent of voters rejected a proposed
draft constitution, which would have been the first major
overhaul of the east African nation's charter since independence
from Britain in 1963.


That referendum was marked by violence and forced Kibaki to sack
cabinet ministers who rejected the draft, dealing a massive blow
to the government.


The vote was the culmination of a convoluted 15-year process,
which began under the reign of former president and autocrat
Daniel arap Moi, to give the country a new charter that reflected
the needs and concerns of its citizens.


The opposition is pressing for presidential powers to be trimmed
and devolved to the post of the prime minister, as well as an
independent electoral commission and affirmative action for
women.


The ODM-K, made up of sacked cabinet ministers, has vowed to
boycott the polls if the government fails to initiate reforms in
the constitution.


Kibaki, a trained economist, has again announced plans to seek
re-election in the polls and has rejected widespread accusations
by some of the opposition that he had pledged to be a one-term
president.


Analysts have said the December polls will be the most hotly-
contested since pluralism was introduced in Kenya in 1992.

