

Two inmates at the US detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
who are about to face military trial urged the Supreme Court on
Tuesday to rule on their legal rights before proceedings begin.


Last week, the US high court ruled that dozens of Guantanamo Bay
inmates had no right to challenge their detention in federal
court and that they had not exhausted all other legal options.


But Yemeni Salim Ahmed Hamdan and Canadian Omar Khadr said they
don't have time to pursue other legal avenues to see if they
could be protected under the US constitution because their day in
military court is fast approaching.


"The time to hear this particular case is now," the petitioners'
brief said.


"Petitioners are irreparably harmed by having to defend
themselves in trials where they are kept ignorant as to whether
or not the Constitution protects them and governs the procedures
by which their prosecutions are allowed to proceed."


Both men are among the first Guantanamo prisoners the US
government intends to prosecute this summer in special military
courts, known as military commissions.


Concerned the courts will not respect defendants' rights, the
plaintiffs are seeking to be able to contest that issue before
they go to trial.


Already the first inmate to face trial, Australian David Hicks,
pleaded guilty to attending Al-Qaeda training camps and
volunteering to fight in support of the Taliban regime during the
US-led invasion of Afghanistan.


Hicks received a nine-month sentence during his trial in March.


"The recent plea of David Hicks has cast further doubt on the
ability of these commissions to prosecute cases fairly," the
statement said.


"If they (the trials) go forward within that legal vacuum, the
process will ultimately cast doubt on this nation's judicial
system and our hallowed traditions of fairness in the eyes of the
world."


The trials take place according to a special system that allows
indirect witness testimony and statements extracted under duress.


Last week's Supreme Court ruling applied to dozens of Guantanamo
Bay inmates who have little prospect of facing formal charges, a
tribunal or a return to their home countries.


Only three of the nine judges on the court have said they would
be prepared to examine the case, one short of the number required
for it to be taken up by justices under their rules of procedure.


The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case left intact a
ruling by the federal appeals court that the inmates had no
constitutional right to challenge their detention before federal
courts because they were not US citizens or on US soil.


That ruling upheld a law passed last year barring designated
"enemy combatants" from challenging their detention in the US
court system.

