

Michael Dawson knows Tottenham must find a way to eliminate UEFA
Cup holders Sevilla if they are to avoid the unwanted tag of
English football's biggest underachievers.


Martin Jol's side have produced some spell-binding play this
season that carried them to the brink of success in three cup
competitions.


Dimitar Berbatov, Robbie Keane and Aaron Lennon have all dazzled
opposing defenders with their blend of pace and poise, but Spurs
have so far failed to capitalise on their undoubted talent.


Juat two months ago, fans of the London club were excitedly
talking up their team's chances of winning a cup treble. But a
League Cup semi-final defeat by Arsenal was followed by an FA Cup
quarter-final exit against Chelsea.


Those defeats have left the UEFA Cup as Spurs' last chance for
silverware this season. Now they face the defining moment of the
campaign as Sevilla visit White Hart Lane for the second leg of
their UEFA Cup quarter-final tie.


The Spanish club lead 2-1 from the first meeting a week ago and
are slight favourites to progress to a likely semi-final against
Osasuna, who beat Bayer Leverkusen 3-0 in their first leg.


Tottenham defender Dawson acknowledges the significance of the
tie but insists his side have nothing to fear.


"It is a massive, massive game in our season," Dawson told
Tottenham's website. "We know what it means to the club and we
know what it means for the season, it can keep it going for us.


"Certainly we've got nothing to be afraid of. They are a good
team who are near the top of their league but we know what we can
do at White Hart Lane."


Ledley King is close to resuming his partnership with Dawson at
the heart of the Tottenham defence after stepping up his recovery
from foot injuries that have kept him out since December 26.


Jol would love to have the Spurs captain back against Sevilla but
it would be a major risk to throw him straight back into the side
for such an important game.


Spurs will definitely be missing Lee Young-Pyo after the South
Korean left-back suffered knee ligament damage in Seville last
week.


Sevilla only need a draw to go through but midfielder Christian
Poulsen claims his team will play to win.


"The English style of play is very fast and strong," he said.
"They are a team with very good attacking players and I think we
need to score one or two goals.


"We will need to score in London because it is very difficult to
play out a 0-0.


"Sevilla's style is not to play for a 0-0 but to go forward and
we are going to continue like that."


Sevilla will be well rested for the trip to London after coach
Juande Ramos left out seven first team regulars, including
strikers Freddie Kanoute and Alexander Kerzhakov, for their
goalless draw against Racing Santander at the weekend.


But Ramos will be without goalkeeeper Andres Palop after he
failed to shake off a calf injury in time to make the squad.
David Cobeno will deputise, while Brazilian striker Luis Fabiano
returns from suspension.


London police will be on red-alert to avoid the sort of ugly
scenes that marred the first leg in Spain.


Spurs fans fought with riot police during the first half at the
Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan Stadium and seven needed hospital
treatment. UEFA are investigating the incidents and both clubs
are determined there will be no repeat in the English capital.


With so much at stake and Spurs still furious over the penalty
that brought Sevilla their first leg equaliser, there is certain
to be an explosive atmosphere on the pitch, but Jol's side must
keep their heads to banish those nearly-men taunts.

