

Britain's ability to be a force for good has been seriously
weakened by foreign policy mistakes, notably Iraq, Oxfam said
Wednesday, weighing up Prime Minister Tony Blair's 10 years in
power.


The British-based development and relief agency warned that
Britain's ability to help stop genocide, mass war crimes and
human rights abuses had been undermined by the "terrible
misadventure" of the invasion of Iraq in 2003.


However, that should not prevent Britain from intervening in
future humanitarian disasters, Oxfam insisted.


"Day in day out, Oxfam sees the human consequences of Britain's
foreign policies at first hand, both good and bad," said Oxfam
director Barbara Stocking.


"Labour's foreign policy has been at its best when it has been in
tune with public opinion and international law.


"However it is now clear that the invasion of Iraq, and the
government's failure to stand up to all governments when they
break international law and harm innocent people, have seriously
damaged Britain's capacity to be a force for good on the world
stage."


In its report, "A Fair Foreign Policy", Oxfam said its workers in
war zones were reporting an "anti-Britishism" trend driven by
perceived double standards in the country's foreign policy.


The report said Britain could only rebuild its reputation and
effectiveness through criticising both allies and foes equally
for violations of international human rights and humanitarian
laws.


Blair's Labour Party swept to power in May 1997, pledging what it
called an "ethical foreign policy."


"The Iraq war was a terrible misadventure. But it must not cause
future prime ministers to return to the caution of the previous
Conservative government," said Oxfam director Barbara Stocking.


"That administration stood by while the genocides in Bosnia and
Rwanda unfolded. We must say 'never again' as much to our failure
to stop these atrocities, as to repeating Iraq."


Oxfam called for Britain to remodel its foreign policy around
five principles:


-- actively working to protect civilians;


-- consistently challenging abuses of humanitarian law and human
rights;


-- achieving an international arms trade treaty by 2010;


-- finding new ways to influence emerging powers, and pursuing
fairer relations with developing countries;


-- strengthening multilateral institutions so they can better
protect innocent people.

