

Chelsea coach Jose Mourinho quickly tried to adopt the role of
underdog ahead of the Champions League semi-finals after their
stunning quarter-final victory at Valencia on Tuesday.


Ghanian midfielder Michael Essien scored a late winner to give
Chelsea a 2-1 victory, and 3-2 aggregate win, and send them
through to an anticipated match up against old foes Liverpool in
two weeks time.


Even Mourinho is anticipating that the Merseyside club will be
their opponents after winning 3-0 at PSV Eindhoven last week.


"Liverpool would have to be the favourites," said Mourinho when
asked about how he felt about facing Liverpool again in a replay
of the last time Chelsea were in the semi-finals of Europe's top
club competition two years ago.


"We are fighting for three titles but we have several yellow
cards, we will be missing key players. Liverpool don't have the
same problems," said Mourinho.


Among his men who will missing for the first leg of the semi-
final at Stamford Bridge will be Essien.


Chelsea's hero on Tuesday was booked after just three minutes for
a clumsy challenge on Valencia and former Liverpool striker
Fernando Morientes, but never threw in the towel in
disappointment at a mandatory one-match ban.


Inevitably questions were asked about whether getting Chelsea
into the Champions League semi-finals would secure Mourinho's
future at the London club.


There is widely believed to be a rift between him and Chelsea's
billionaire Russian owner Ramon Abramovich and there has been
considerable speculation he will leave Stamford Bridge in the
summer.


"I would like to stay in England and ideally that would be at
Chelsea but you cannot always get what you want in life. If I
can't get it at Chelsea then I would like to continue coaching
(in England)," said Mourinho.


Considering he was speaking in Spain his answer was an
appropriately quixotic response.


It left no doubt that his future at Chelsea is far from certain
even if he does lift the Champions League for the second time in
four seasons, following on from his success at Porto in his
native Portugal in 2004.


Reading between the lines, Mourinho's comments could be taken as
a rebuff to Real Madrid, who are widely rumoured to want him to
replace Fabio Capello, and an invitation to the English Football
Association should Steve McClaren's position become untenable.


Further evidence that all is not well between Mourinho and his
employer came when Chelsea press officer Simon Greenberg refused
to take any questions from journalists about what Mourinho
thought might be the reaction of Abramovich to the historic
victory.


Valencia had not lost at home to an English side in a European
competition for 40 years.


Aside for the usual fun and games of Mourinho trying to win
psychological battles with his rivals and the speculation about
his future, Mourinho paid considerable tribute to his players who
pulled off the win.


"We had to change tactics at the break," said Mourinho,
reflecting on the fact that they were a goal down through a
Morientes strike after 32 minutes.


He made the decisive switch of bringing on England international
Joe Cole for French defensive midfielder Lassana Diarra and
swapping the formation around from 4-4-2 to 4-3-3 in a bid to
claw back the deficit.


"Joe Cole is a creative player. He was a better option to take on
the Valencia defenders. I knew Essien could do a good job on the
right wing so we managed to dominate the second half thanks to
them.


"We deserved to win the game and every Chelsea fan should be
proud."


"I can imagine what happened to Valencia. They were a goal up and
then we got a goal back and then their defence got nervous. They
were probably thinking about whether we were going to score a
second goal," added Mourinho.

