

Noel Forgeard, who stood down as co-chief executive of European
aerospace group EADS last year, received a severance package
worth more than 8.5 million euros (11.4 million dollars), company
documents showed on Tuesday.


Forgeard, under the terms of his contract, was awarded 6.1
million euros in pay, the equivalent of more than two years'
salary, and is also entitled to a non- competition indemnity
package payable over two years worth 2.4 million euros.


The figures were contained in documents sent to shareholders
before the EADS annual general meeting on May 4 which were
obtained by AFP on Tuesday.


Forgeard stepped down last July after coming under mounting
pressure over the announcement of delays in the delivery of the
Airbus A380 superjumbo, made by the Airbus unit of EADS, and
controversy over his decision to exercise share options just
months earlier.


"Under the terms of his employment contract Noel Forgeard was
entitled to a six months notice period, which represents an
amount of 1,223,317 (gross salary and bonus)."


He also got "a termination package of 4,893,268 (ie 24 months of
total gross annual income,)" the document said.


He also was entitled to "a 2-year non-competition indemnity which
represents a monthly gross amount of 101,917 euros," from 2007
onwards.


In 2005 Forgeard had received a gross salary of 2.33 million
euros, including a fixed salary of 1.13 million euros and a bonus
of 1.2 million euros.


A former advisor to President Jacques Chirac, Forgeard had relied
partly on the French leader's backing to wage -- and win -- a
fierce leadership struggle at the European aerospace group that
saw him named co-chief executive in 2005.


The revelation of his severance package drew criticism from a
small shareholders group APPAC, which described the payments as
"completely immoral" given a painful restructuring programme
underway at Airbus.


"When a chairman destroys a company he should be punished," the
group's chairman Didier Cornardeau said.


But a source close to Forgeard insisted that the payments linked
to his departure stemmed from "the application of common law to
the termination of contract and did not constitute a dismissal
for an infraction."

