

Disgraced former Italian champions Juventus moved seven points
clear at the top of Serie B after a 2-0 victory over Napoli on
Tuesday.


The match was marred by clashes between rival supporters outside
the Olympic Stadium ahead of the afternoon kick-off.


A fan was hospitalised after being stabbed in the leg.


The man was rushed to hospital but was not reported to be
seriously injured, according to the Ansa news agency.


It was a sorry beginning to a match that had great significance
in the promotion race as Napoli are one of Juve's main rivals.


Juventus dominated the early running and took the lead on 18
minutes as Italian midfielder Mauro Camoranesi headed home a
cross from Czech counterpart Pavel Nedved despite a tight angle.


Camoranesi was involved again in the second goal as his cross was
turned home by Juve captain Alessandro Del Piero four minutes
after the break.


Juve were forced to hold on with 10 men after Claudio Marchision
was sent-off on 62 minutes after throwing a punch at an opponent.


The league leaders survived without too many scares though and
moved seven points clear of Genoa with Napoli a further two
points back.


But the crowd trouble will have come as unwelcome news for
Italian football which is already reeling from a flurry of recent
incidents.


The Italian government last week passed new laws they hope will
stamp out football hooliganism.


Strict new security measures were introduced shortly after a
policeman was killed when Catania fans went on the rampage
before, during and after their Serie A derby match against
Sicilian rivals Palermo in February.


There was also trouble between Roma and Manchester United fans
ahead of last week's Champions League quarter-final first leg tie
with several United fans being stabbed before the game.


The government clampdown demanded clubs took more responsibilty
for security, including more closed-circuit television (CCTV)
cameras at stadiums, named tickets, electronic turnstiles,
adequate stewarding, and crowd filtering areas outside grounds.


Juventus were last summer demoted from Serie A and given a nine-
point handicap in Serie B for their role in the Italian match-
fixing scandal.

