

Record-breaking fast bowler Lasith Malinga is doubtful for Sri
Lanka's World Cup Super Eights clash against New Zealand on
Thursday with an ankle injury.


Malinga was not at Sri Lanka's practice session at Sagesse Park
here Tuesday and afterwards skipper Mahela Jayawardene told AFP:
"Lasith has an ankle problem and we'll assess it over the next
couple of days. We're not sure he's 100 percent.


"We don't want to take unnecessary risks at this stage. We've got
experienced players who can come in and we are confident they can
do a job for us."


He said one of Malinga's fellow quicks such as Farveez Maharoof
or Nuwan Kulasekara was most likely to come in if the 23-year-old
strike bowler, who has been one of the stars of the World Cup,
doesn't overcome his left ankle problem in time to face the Black
Caps.


"It depends on how much of a gamble we want to take at this
stage. He's had a scan which has shown some minor ligament damage
but it's nothing serious," said Jayawardene, who explained that
Malinga had injured himself at an earlier training session while
running round the outfield with his team-mates.


Malinga, whose distinctive slingy action makes him difficult to
face, tops the tournament bowling averages with 15 wickets at an
average of under 15 apiece.


Against South Africa, in a Super Eight match in Guyana last
month, Malinga became the first bowler to take four wickets in
four balls in a one-day international although it wasn't enough
to prevent the Proteas getting home by one wicket.


Both Sri Lanka, the 1996 champions, and New Zealand have been
tipped as sides with the capability to stop Australia from
winning an unprecedented third straight title.


And batsman Jayawardene said he was looking forward to taking on
Super Eights table-toppers New Zealand (they are currently ahead
of Australia on run-rate after a 129-run thrashing of Ireland)
who've been frequent opponents for Sri Lanka during the past
year.


"They are playing some really good cricket but they haven't
played one of the top teams yet. They've got a very good all-
round side and bat until deep. "We've played them a lot in the
last 12 months and we know their strengths and weaknesses."


Meanwhile, Jayawardene insisted comments attributed to former
Australia batsman Justin Langer that Sri Lanka coach Tom Moody
would quit the team after the World Cup to coach Western
Australia were wide of the mark.


Former Australia international Moody, who played state cricket
for WA, has been linked both with a return to Perth and the
England coaching job.


But he again insisted Tuesday he'd made no decision about his
future, which he has repeatedly said will only be settled when
Sri Lanka's participation in the World Cup is over.


"What has come out in the papers is not what Tom has told him
(Langer)," Jayawardene explained.


Moody has been with the Sri Lankans since June, 2005 and
Jayawardene said his influence on a largely youthful team had
been significant.


"Tom has been brilliant for us. He's brought something different
to the side and we've flourished.


"I don't have to tell the (Sri Lanka) board that. They know how
valuable Tom is to us and I'm sure they'll do everything in their
power to keep him.


"But he has said he wants to finish the World Cup with Sri Lanka
and then decide. Cricket is only a game and there are other
factors in life. At the end of the day, it's his decision."

