

An experimental stem cell therapy designed to reverse the course
of type 1 diabetes allowed patients to go treatment-free for
months and in one case, three years, a study released Tuesday
said.


Thirteen of the 15 patients who took part in testing the therapy
were able to quit the insulin injections that most diabetics
depend on and remain insulin- free today, the researchers
reported in the Journal of the American Medical Association
(JAMA).


One of the first patients to undergo the procedure has gone three
years without using any supplemental synthetic insulin to
regulate their blood sugar levels.


"This is the first therapy for type I diabetes to result in drug-
free treatment," said Richard Burt, chief of immunotherapy at
Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago,
and one of the senior authors of the research report.


While investigators continue to monitor patients' progress, the
preliminary results raise the tantalizing possibility that type 1
diabetes may not be a life sentence, according to a prominent US
diabetes researcher.


"This study by Voltarelli et al is the first of what likely will
be many attempts at cellular therapy to interdict the type 1
diabetes mellitus (DM) disease process," said Jay Skyler of the
University of Miami.


"Research in this field is likely to explode in the next few
years and should include randomized controlled trials as well as
mechanistic studies. As these further studies confirm and build
on the results of Voltarelli et al, the time may indeed be coming
for starting to reverse and prevent type 1 DM."


His comments appeared in an editorial accompanying the JAMA
paper. Julio Voltarelli is the Brazilian researcher from the
University of Sao Paolo in Ribeirao Preto, Brazil, who oversaw
the trial.


Type 1 diabetes accounts for only five to 10 percent of all cases
of the disease, but can result in serious complications including
blindness, kidney failure, heart disease, and stroke.


The condition arises when the body's own immune system attacks
and destroys the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas,
causing a shortage in the hormone required to regulate blood
sugar.


By the time most patients receive a clinical diagnosis, 60 to 80
percent of their beta cells have been wiped out.


The researchers in this trial hoped that if they intervened early
enough they could reprogram the body's immune system, allowing
the small reservoir of beta cells left to regenerate.


To that end, they enrolled diabetics who had been diagnosed
within the previous six weeks.


The researchers set out by harvesting stem cells from the
volunteers.


The patients then underwent chemotherapy to wipe out their own
immune systems, and were subsequently given transfusions of their
own stem cells to rebuild their immune systems.


Fourteen of the 15, or 93 percent, were insulin-free for some
period of time following the treatment.


Eleven of those dispensed with supplemental insulin following
treatment and have not had recourse to synthetic insulin since
then. Periods of remission range from 36 months for the patient
who had the therapy first to six months for more recent graduates
of the trial.


Two other patients needed some supplemental insulin for 12 and 20
months after the procedure, but eventually both were able to wean
themselves from the synthetic form of the hormone supplied in
daily shots.


One patient went 12 months without shots, but relapsed a year
after treatment after suffering a viral infection, and resumed
daily insulin injections.


Another volunteer was eliminated from the study because of
complications.


Further studies will be required to evaluate the safety and
efficacy of this therapy, but the early signs are encouraging, in
terms of the benefits and the low risk of side effects, which
included one case of pneumonia and two cases of hormone
dysfunction, the authors said.

