

Egyptian officials on Tuesday welcomed the return of an ancient
pharaoh's hairs that were nearly sold on the Internet by a French
postal worker with a vow that foreigners would never again
examine royal mummies.


"The matter is finished and I thank French authorities for having
done what was necessary," Culture Minister Faruq Hosni told AFP
during the event at the 100 -year-old Egyptian museum in downtown
Cairo.


Journalists were shown a large lock of hair, as well as five
other strands of red-dyed hair, as well as resin and linen
bandages from Pharaoh Ramses II and his son Merneptah.


Antiquities head Zahi Hawass said that never again would
foreigners be allowed to examine the royal mummies which would
only be open to Egyptian experts.


"It was completely illegal and also shocking that these important
pieces could have been taken during a scientific examination," he
said.


Frenchman Jean-Michel Diebolt, a 50-year-old postman living in
the Alps, advertised the samples online for 2,000 euros (2,633
dollars), prompting a storm of outrage from Egypt.


Diebolt, who was briefly arrested by police, said the samples
came into his possession via his father who was part of a team of
French scientists tasked with analysing the royal mummy 30 years
ago.


Ramses II's mummy, which is currently housed in the Egyptian
Museum, was sent to Paris in 1976 to be treated for a fungal
infection.


The pharaoh, who reigned from 1279 to 1213 BC, was issued with an
Egyptian passport and received at Paris's Le Bourget airport with
a ceremony fit for a king.


The French lab where the man's father reportedly worked, the
Atomic Energy Commissariat (CEA) in southeastern Grenoble,
confirmed it was sent fragments of the mummy's hair, resin and
bandaging for analysis in 1976 and 1977.


Hawass said the attempted sale was discovered because he has
observers who scan the Internet constantly for violations of
Egypt's heritage.


"We open the Internet everyday, and the most important source you
have are my spies," he said. "I have spies all over the world."


Hawass has long campaigned for the return of Egyptian antiquities
from foreign museums.

