

Several of England's players at the World Cup have been fined for
a "breach of team discipline," it was announced Saturday.


In a statement, team spokesman Andy Walpole said the breach had
taken place here on Friday night following England's six-wicket
defeat by New Zealand in their opening Group C World Cup match
earlier in the day at the Beausejour Cricket Ground.


The players - understood to be James Anderson, Ian Bell, Jon
Lewis and Liam Plunkett - were, a source said, fined for a late
night drinking session at the Rumours Nightclub near England's
team hotel in St Lucia.


Fans who witnessed events then contacted several British
newspapers to tell them what they'd seen.


There was no suggestion that anything untoward had taken place
other than that the players had been out late ahead of their
second Group clash against Canada on Sunday - a match England
must win if they are to qualify for the second phase, Super Eight
stage of the tournament.


Other players who were also reportedly out on Saturday evening
are believed to have avoided disciplinary action because of their
earlier return to the hotel.


England cricketers are not subject to a formal curfew, the
general view of coach Duncan Fletcher being that what his squad
get up to beyond the boundary is not a matter for him provided it
doesn't interfere with their cricket.


The breach was reported to the England team management at
breakfast time on Saturday and the decision to fine the players
involved taken at a subsequent team meeting, attended by the
whole squad and management, at noon local time.


Walpole, who refused to name the players involved, the extent of
their fines, or the exact nature of the breach, said in a
statement: "The England team management today (Saturday)
announced that a number of England players had been fined by the
head coach, Duncan Fletcher, after admitting to a breach of team
discipline last (Friday) night.


"The decision followed a team meeting at noon today (Saturday)
which was attended by all the players and management."


Down the years, alcohol has been used by cricketers from around
the world as a means of both celebrating victory and drowning the
sorrows of a defeat, with some coaches and captains actively
encouraging such social get-togethers as a way of fostering team
unity.

