

South Africa's Coastal Sharks maintained their unbeaten record
and returned to the top of the Super 14 ladder, while the
Canterbury Crusaders were the big movers in the weekend's seventh
round.


But it was another dire weekend for Australian sides, with their
only success going to the Western Force in the local derby
against the hapless Queensland Reds.


The Auckland Blues had the weekend off, leaving them powerless to
stop the Sharks jumping from second to first and opening up a
two-point lead as they put away the Wellington Hurricanes 27-14.


Importantly for the men from Durban, they managed to score four
tries to earn their first bonus point of the year as they
inflicted a third consecutive defeat on last year's beaten
finalists.


Three of the tries came from rolling mauls, summing up the
dominance of their pack, led superbly by veteran flanker AJ
Venter.


"We've been looking for the four tries all season and eventually
it's come today so we're happy with that," said Venter.


"We've got six in a row now but it's still only a start, we've
got a lot of games on the road to come."


After playing the ACT Brumbies at home next weekend, the Sharks
leave for four away games including a showdown with the Blues in
Auckland.


The Crusaders, rejuvenated after a bye last week, jumped from
ninth to fifth on the ladder as their makeshift lineup thrashed
the Northern Bulls 32-10 at Jade Stadium in Christchurch.


It was their last game without seven All Blacks who have been
undergoing a special conditioning programme but in their absence,
understudies such as Kieran Read, Stephen Brett, Michael Paterson
and Tim Bateman have stood up.


"That was our focus. We want to make them (the resting All
Blacks) push for a position, not just give them a position, and I
think we've done that," said captain Corey Flynn.


The Bulls, who slipped from third to fourth over the weekend,
held a massive 50-kilogram advantage in the forwards, but the
lighter and more technically correct Crusaders won the battle up
front.


The Western Force continued their hunt for a Super 14 semi-final
berth in just their second season, demolishing the woeful
Queensland Reds 38-3 at Subiaco Oval.


The win, and the four-try bonus point, put the Force into third
place while the Reds remained firmly at the bottom


The Central Cheetahs overcame a run of poor home form by scoring
five tries to run out convincing 38-20 winners over the Brumbies.


It was their first victory on home soil in four outings this
year, while the Brumbies not only lost the game but also lost
captain Stirling Mortlock for up to six weeks with a broken hand.


Mortlock has been in the wars this season and had only recently
returned from two bouts of concussion from head knocks.


The Western Stormers meanwhile piled on the misery for Australian
rugby by scrambling to a 16-10 victory over the New South Wales
Waratahs.


It was the Cape Town side's third win over the Waratahs in five
trips to Sydney and left the home team wallowing in second-last
place after seven rounds.


The injury-plagued Waikato Chiefs registered their first win of
the season when they steamrolled the error-riddled Golden Lions
34-7.


The Chiefs were spurred by feisty flyhalf Stephen Donald, who
scored two of their five tries, the tactical smarts of inside
centre Tasesa Lavea and a never- say-die forward pack that was
missing most of its big names.

