

Some Iraqi oil experts and politicians are aghast over their
government's approval of a bill that many fear will deliver the
country's oil wealth to international firms on a platter.


In February, capping months of bitter wrangling, the Baghdad
government approved a draft law that aims to distribute revenue
from crude oil exports equitably across Iraq's 18 provinces and
open the sector to foreign investors.


The multi-party government of Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki sees
the legislation as a key plank in moves to reunite a country torn
apart by sectarian violence, and hopes that parliament will
ratify the bill in May.


But former Iraqi oil industry officials, experts and lawmakers
gathered in Jordan to debate the bill have warned that the timing
is wrong, and expressed strong concerns that Iraq would lose
control of its own "black gold."


"There are many question marks hanging over this draft law," said
Dhia al-Bakaa, former president of the Iraqi State Oil Marketing
Organisation (SOMO).


"Why the timing? Why the hurry when we still lack political,
economic and security stability," Bakaa asked a recent conference
organised by the non- governmental Iraqi Centre for Strategic
Studies.


"The Iraqi National Oil Company should have been restructured
before the government endorsed the draft law, to allow INOC to
develop the giant oil fields so that they would not face pressure
and extortion in the future."


Issam Chalabi, an oil minister under executed Iraqi dictator
Saddam Hussein, said the bill did not take "into account our
greater national interests."


It was adopted "to satisfy US President George W. Bush," who
called on the newly installed Maliki government last June to
restore electricity in Iraq, adopt a new investment law and
restructure the oil industry, he said.


Chalabi also charged that Iraqi oil exports over the past four
years have gone "unchecked and unaccounted for."


Iraq's proven oil reserves, estimated at 115 billion barrels, are
thought to be the third largest in the world, behind Saudi Arabia
and Iran.


Since the US-led invasion in 2003, Iraqi production has tumbled
from 3.5 million barrels per day to around two million. Chalabi
said Iraq has been exporting around 1.5 million bpd.


Faleh al-Khayat, a former head of planning at the oil ministry,
warned that "major foreign oil firms are greedy and will covet
Iraq's oil wealth" if the bill is adopted.


"If Iraq's giant oilfields are developed they would yield 80
percent of Iraq's proven reserves estimated at 115 billion
barrels," he said.


MP Saleh Mutlak of Iraq's National Dialogue Front echoed him: "We
have no need for foreign companies. We are experienced enough to
reap the fruit of our wealth."


Mutlak also said he feared the bill may not live up to government
hopes that it will unify Iraq.


"We don't want a new law that will further divide us. We need a
law that will unite the Iraqi people," he said.


Most oil production is in the Shiite south, with the best
prospects for new finds centred on the Kurdish north. The
northern oil hub of Kirkuk is disputed between Kurdish and Arab
leaders.


Motlak said parliament in Baghdad should not ratify the bill
"until we reach the appropriate climate for investments in Iraq."


MP Ali Mashhadani agreed.


"Our oil wealth is black gold that must be kept underground until
security conditions are appropriate to take advantage of it. It
has been entrusted to our safekeeping by the people we
represent," he said.


According to Mashhadani "Iraq has sold 125 billion dollars worth
of oil since the start of the US-led occupation."


The Iraqi people have not benefited from this revenue and "are
eating garbage," Mashhadani said, suggesting that income from oil
sales be given to the people in the form of state-subsidised
"monthly rations cards."

