

India find themselves in a must-win situation after just one
horrible day at the office as they prepare to take on debutants
Bermuda in their second World Cup match here on Monday.


India suffered a shock five-wicket defeat against Bangladesh at
the Queen's Park Oval here on Saturday and now need to win their
remaining two Group B matches to keep alive their hopes of
qualifying for the next Super Eight stage.


"I think it is pretty clear from now on. We have got to win the
next two games and we have got to win them well. That's pretty
clear," said India skipper Rahul Dravid.


"We have got our task cut out. It's about winning. The boys just
have to knuckle down now. We have got our backs to the wall and
we have got to keep fighting and do our best."


Sri Lanka and Bangladesh have posted one win in the four-team
group, while Bermuda and India are winless after one game. Sri
Lanka thrashed Bermuda by 243 runs in their opening game here on
Thursday.


India suffered one of their worst World Cup defeats when they
were outplayed by Habibul Bashar's side in all departments of the
game. They could manage just 191, a total comfortably surpassed
by their rivals.


"It's really disappointing to lose. We have had some
disappointing defeats, but this probably is a big
disappointment," said Dravid.


"Everyone is going to be disappointed with this, there is no
doubt about it. We haven't played well. But there is nothing much
we can do about it. We can only learn lessons from this game."


Dravid did not believe that his team lacked conviction, saying
they really worked hard.


"Maybe, it looked like that from outside. I know we can look back
and be very critical. When you lose, you have got to take the
criticism," he said.


"Defending 191 was never going to be easy. We needed wickets at
regular intervals and we tried to get those, but we couldn't. The
guys tried really hard. It's just that we probably needed 30-40
runs more."


Dravid also defended his decision to bat first after winning the
toss on a pitch which had both bounce and movement for seamers
early in the morning.


"I don't know if we can regret it (the decision). We could have
just batted a lot better. The ball did seam around a lot more and
for a bit longer period than we had expected," he said.


"The wicket had a pretty dry look about it. It looked a good
wicket to play on. We should have put runs on the board and make
it difficult for them in the afternoon, but it didn't work that
way because we lost early wickets."


The Indian captain conceded that Bangladesh played better cricket
on the day, while his team failed to perform up to their
potential.


"They (Bangladesh) are really playing some good cricket. Their
bowling was quite outstanding. They bowled really well,
especially Mashrafe Mortaza who bowled in good areas with the new
ball in good conditions for him," he said.


"Their spinners then kept it tight and didn't give anything away.
They have really improved and are playing some really good
cricket at the moment. We didn't play anywhere near our
potential, and we paid the price for it."

