

Four years after the invasion of Iraq, US commanders now believe
a new strategy backed up by tens of thousands of extra troops at
last has a chance to put an end to the sectarian slaughter.


Hard fighting and more casualties lie ahead, they warn, but with
Iraqi leaders and security forces now pulling in the right
direction, the military says there is reason to hope that the new
security plan will prevail.


Unfortunately, these promising signs come after more than 3,200
US troops and tens of thousands of Iraqis have died in the past
four years, and as public support for the war in the United
States itself is plummeting beyond the point of no return.


With many candidates in next year's US presidential election
likely to run on a "troops out" ticket, and the entire Middle
East region in state of high tension, time is running out for
General David Petraeus and his soldiers.


The new US commander took over last month trailing great
expectations, but he warns it will take months for his plan to
make a difference to the strength of the Al-Qaeda insurgency or
the savagery of the Sunni-Shiite conflict.


"The Washington clock's ticking, and the Baghdad clock's ticking,
and we wish we could wind the Baghdad clock a little faster,"
Petraeus said this week in the western insurgent town of Ramadi,
while insisting politics will not distract him from the task.


The irony of this sudden urgency is not lost on officers in the
field.


While none will publicly criticise civilian officials, such as
former defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld, they respond with wry
smiles when asked why the new tactics employed by Petraeus'
command were not adopted three years ago.


Instead, they talk enthusiastically of the so-called "surge
strategy," which will see more than 25,000 extra US troops pour
into Baghdad and by June bring total force numbers to 160,000 for
the first time since 2003.


Most of these reinforcements will join Operation Fardh al-Qanoon
(Imposing Law), a plan developed with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki, to clear the capital of insurgents and militia
fighters and then hold the ground.


Already, and for the first time, more than 25 fortified "Joint
Security Stations" and around 50 "Combat Outposts" have been
built to house heavily armed US units alongside their Iraqi
comrades in the heart of the city.


Initial results have been promising, despite a spate of car bomb
attacks by Sunni insurgents, as Shiite militias such as radical
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army have melted away and offered
no organised resistance.


Sectarian murders and kidnappings are down dramatically -- by
around two thirds -- according to General Joseph Fil of the US
Army's 1st Cavalry Divison, and the commander of Multinational
Division Baghdad.


According to Fil, the new strategy will take longer than earlier
sweeps of Baghdad, but have a more lasting effect on security.
Previous operations failed because insurgents returned in
strength once US troops left.


"Sometimes when they came back it was worse than it was before.
The cycle was about six weeks," he said, warning that the failure
of previous initiatives had made Iraqis suspicious of the new
plan.


"There's a sense of suspense in the air, a sense of suspense and
anticipation among the Iraqi people, and I think it is being met
by this operation," he said.


As much as on military operations such as the Fardh al-Qanoon
surge, success for the US military and the Iraqi government
depends on building a peaceful political consensus in the country
and in the region.


Both Baghdad and Washington have been keen to blame neighouring
countries for their problems in Iraq.


The White House accuses Iran of arming Shiite militias and in
particular of sending components for the "explosively formed
penetrator" -- an armour-piercing roadside bomb that has killed
170 American soldiers.


Meanwhile, Maliki's Shiite-led government claims that individuals
in Sunni Arab states are arming Al-Qaeda-linked groups.


Senior Maliki advisor Bassem Ridha told AFP this week that the
insurgency "is being financed by sheikhs of Saudi Arabia, the
Gulf, Kuwait, Yemen.


"It is being delivered by a fanatic cult called Al-Qaeda, and
Baathists are doing the navigation for them," he said, referring
to ousted dictator Saddam Hussein's Baath party, to which many
rebels belong.


But for all the diplomatic hullaballoo surrounding these
allegations, US ground commanders warn that both the sectarian
war and the insurgency are now self- sustaining and must be faced
from within Iraq.


"If there are people working on ways to cut off foreign funding
to Al-Qaeda in Iraq, that's good, but they shouldn't spend much
time on it," one officer told AFP this week in western Iraq.


Another commander, US Marine Brigadier General John Allen, said
the Sunni insurgent movement finances itself through organised
crime -- racketeering, smuggling, theft, kidnap and ransom.


Meanwhile, US officers say Iraq is awash with weapons dating from
before the invasion, providing insurgents with ready materiel
without the need for mass cross-border smuggling.


There is a new sense among commanders in Iraq that the new
strategy is their best chance yet for victory. It's just that the
window for success is tight.

