

Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is responsible for the beatings
of opposition leaders because he has made it clear it is a
"deliberate act of policy," Britain charged Saturday.


"One can only hold him responsible," British Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett said in an interview recorded for BBC television
on Sunday when asked if she held him personally responsible for
the violence.


"He is in charge of the government," Beckett said on BBC1's
Politics Show, according to a transcript of the interview
distributed at the weekend.


"He has made it very clear that this is a deliberate act of
policy on the part of the government of Zimbabwe and that he is
indifferent to the real, I think horror, that is felt right
across the international community," she said.


Britain was "pressing very hard" for action to be taken in the UN
Human Rights Council, Beckett said.


The council last year replaced the UN Commission on Human Rights,
which was discredited due to the dominant presence of countries
with poor human rights records, such as China, and riven by
behind-the-scenes bargaining.


"This is one of its first major tests and there's general
agreement that that is the right place to call for action against
the government of Robert Mugabe," she said.


The body, which the United States voted against because it feared
it had not changed enough, could pass a resolution condemning
specific human rights abuses in Zimbabwe or it could apply other
pressure, a Foreign Office spokesman said.


"A UN human rights envoy can be sent to engage with the country
if it's human rights record is unacceptable," the spokesman told
AFP.


Beckett is also calling for a tightening of sanctions the
European Union slapped on Mugabe and his coterie after he won
elections in 2002 which the opposition insists were rigged.


A travel ban and an assets freeze extend to anyone who has "taken
part in activities which seriously endangered democracy, respect
for human rights and the rule of law in Zimbabwe."


Those measures cover some 130 people, including Mugabe, his
current and former cabinets and leaders of his ruling Zanu-PF
party.


Beckett repeated earlier remarks that people directly involved in
the violence against opposition leaders must be properly
identified to see whether they are already on the list of people
targeted for sanctions.


"We'll be talking to other EU colleagues about how we can
strengthen the EU's targeted bans," she said.


Pressure has mounted on Mugabe since police last Sunday crushed
an opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) rally in
Harare.


Its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, and other opposition activists
were arrested for defying a police ban and then beaten while in
police custody.

