

Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit on Saturday came out
against further sanctions being imposed on Sudan because of its
handling of the Darfur region revolt in which thousands of people
have been killed.


Speaking to journalists, the minister warned against "the dangers
of brandishing the threat to impose sanctions against Sudan."


He said he had sent "urgent messages" to the five permanent
members of the UN Security Council and to the secretariats of the
United Nations, the African Union and the European Union.


In these, he called for them "to treat in a positive way the last
letter of Sudanese President Omar al-Beshir to UN Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon."


A UN spokeswoman, Marie Okabe, said earlier that Beshir's letter
"contained positive elements, including the strong expression of
support to joint efforts by the African Union and United
Nations... as well as assurances over humanitarian aide for the
people of Darfur."


But she had also said the message "seems to cast doubt on" a
November 2006 accord in which Sudan agreed to the deployment in
Darfur of a joint UN-AU force.


Both Britain and Washington are threatening new sanctions if
Khartoum does not back the deployment.


The Security Council adopted a resolution last year demanding
that Sudan allow the UN to bolster the under-funded, 7,000-member
African Union monitoring force in Darfur.


Beshir rejected the resolution but in November agreed to a
compromise plan for a hybrid AU-UN peacekeeping operation -- an
agreement he has now backed away from.


A UN Human Rights Council mission on Monday released a report
accusing Sudan of orchestrating human rights abuses and war
crimes in Darfur. The report also criticised the international
community's failure to protect civilians.


According to the United Nations, at least 200,000 people have
been killed since the start of civil fighting four years ago.
Some sources say the toll is much higher.


Around two million people have also been displaced.


Washington has accused Khartoum and its militia allies of
genocide in the Sudanese western area.

