

Dreams of making a comfortable living off South Africa's fertile
Cape winelands are souring for many grape growers forced by
dipping exports and stagnant domestic sales to throw in the
towel.


"For sale" signs dot the renowned Stellenbosch winemaking region
with its vineyards nestled among picturesque mountains and a
proud 300-year history of viticulture.


Withering profits had prompted at least 30 Stellenbosch wine
farmers to put their land on the market in recent months, said
estate agent Pierre Germishuys.


"Many simply cannot keep up. They say they cannot keep producing
wine grapes at a loss," he told AFP.


Industry players say an unstable exchange rate, global over-
supply, dropping prices, and agricultural subsidies in rival
producer countries have made it hard for South Africa to compete
in the low price wine category.


"The bubble has burst," said Erhard Roux, winemaker and manager
of the farm Devon Hill -- one of those for sale.


"No South African wine farmer has ever seen such a thing -- so
many things going wrong at once."


With prices dropping internationally due to over-supply, local
co-operatives, distillers and cellars unable to sell existing
stock are paying farmers not to harvest because they had no
storage space.


The price is less than a third of what the growers had expected
to earn per ton of grapes.


"It is heart-wrenching to see those grapes being left to rot,"
said Roux.


Other wine-making nations are also feeling the pinch, but the
South African industry has compounded its own troubles by
underestimating demand for premium quality brands and neglecting
marketing to a dormant local market.


"The world has enough cheap wines, and with the market already
well-owned by bulk producers like Australia and Chile, premium
wine is the way to go," said Giuam de Korte, marketing manager
for Internet wine retailer Cybercellar.


"(We should) market the premium wines. We have some of the best
wines in the world, but if everybody keeps on drinking cheap
South African plonk, they will never try the good, expensive
stuff."


Chris du Toit, business manager for Rustenberg Wines in
Stellenbosch, said well- branded producers of classy wines are
flying high even as the rest were sinking to their knees.


Rustenberg Wines, which targets the British market with wines
priced six at pounds (12 dollars) a bottle and upwards, is
growing at 20 percent year-on-year.


"The local industry jumped on the export bandwagon when the
currency exchange rate was favourable. Now they are paying the
price for not cultivating premium brands and for ignoring the
domestic market."


Previously sheltered from global competition due to apartheid-era
isolation, many local producers lacked the skills to run farms as
enterprises, to market themselves properly and to plan long-term,
said Du Toit.


Wine exports from South Africa, the world's eighth largest
producer, fell four percent last year -- the first drop in 13
years.


"We believe this is a temporary blip," said a statement prepared
for AFP by bodies representing wine producers, marketers and
merchants.


"The wine industry is cyclical in nature, with ups and downs.
There is nothing abnormal about this. (There is) no crisis."


They projected exports to grow 2.8 percent this year, assuming
the local currency depreciated by 10 percent.


Meanwhile, South African wine drinkers stand to benefit from
lower prices.


"Large cellars with too much wine will flood the local market
with low-price deals, while the smaller cellars have to compete
at reduced prices to maintain market share," said Chris Grobler,
national liquor co-ordinator for retailer Pick 'n Pay.


Said South African Wine Council chief executive Johan van Rooyen:
"Local consumers can buy the best wines in a long time for the
best prices."


Yet, local wine consumption -- estimated at a low average of
seven litres per person per year -- remains a concern.


"We need to market to the black up-and-coming middle class more
effectively," said De Korte. "We have a potential market of 30
million wine connoisseurs out there.


"One can only imagine what effect it would have if the black
middle class starts enjoying a glass of wine with their meals
instead of beer."

