

Two rising Asian stars make their debut at the world figure
skating championships here this week, desperate to dethrone
Kimmie Meissner of the United States in a battle of teenage
jumpers.


Japan's Mao Asada and her South Korean rival Kim Yu-Na, both 16,
have already had a taste of glory in senior women's competitions
although they were a few months too young to be eligible for last
year's Olympics and worlds.


Asada upset then world number-one Irina Slutskaya of Russia to
win the Grand Prix final in 2005 but was beaten into second spot
by Kim last December in the same premier event with a lower age
limit.


Meissner, 17, won the 2006 world title in the absence of the
Turin Olympic gold and bronze medalists, Japan's Shizuka Arakawa
and Slutskaya, who also miss out this year.


Arakawa, Asia's first Olympic figure skating champion, has
graduated into a professional ice show while Slutskaya and
Olympic silver medalist Sasha Cohen of the United States are
taking a season off.


A spirited but erratic fighter, Meissner has sprung back from a
winless Grand Prix run this season to win the US national title
and the Four Continents crown, both for the first time.


"I want to end the season on a high note," she told US media.
"Whatever happens with the result won't matter as long as I do
what I've been practising."


Meissner warned pressure would be stronger on the Japanese on
their home ice. "That's nice for me. There's obviously pressure
on me, but not as much."


Asada, who in 2005 became the first woman to land two
3.5-revolution triple axels in a competitive programme, is also
seeking to reach new heights.


"I'm thrilled and excited because I could not take part last
year," she said. "I want to win by landing a triple axle and
scoring more than 200 points."


She won the the Grand Prix NHK Trophy last December, with 199.52
points, a record for women's events sanctioned by the
International Skating Union.


Kim, recovering from disc herniation, can add artistry to her
triple-triple combinations.


The first South Korean figure skater of international note, Kim
beat the Japanese for the 2006 world junior title and won her
first senior Grand Prix at Trophee Eric Bompard in Paris last
November.


Japan's Miki Ando, 19, could also beat Meissner as she did at
Skate America.


In 2002, Ando became the first woman -- and the only one so far
-- to execute a quadruple jump in competition but she has not
landed any since late 2003. Her coach Nikolai Morozov said Ando
may try one in free skating here.


European champion Carolina Kostner of Italy is set to go for a
better medal than her 2005 world bronze.


A men's battle royal is also shaping up with Switzerland's
Stephane Lambiel fighting for a third straight title in a strong
field led by Grand Prix final winner Brian Joubert of France.


Joubert, aged 22, is a top favourite in the absence of Russia's
Olympic gold medalist Evgeni Plushenko.


The French quad master has swept all before him this season to
win the Grand Prix final and lifted his second European
championship.


"I prefer to be an outsider with less pressure," said Joubert,
who is recovering from a bout with athlete's foot.


"I have still have some pain but it feels better and I can jump
more lightly."


Lambiel, 21, the defending champion and the Olympic silver
medalist, skipped the European championships in January citing
lack of motivation but decided at the last minute to compete
here.


Daisuke Takahashi of Japan, the runner-up to Joubert at the GP
final, is polishing his quadruple toe loop with which he won the
NHK Trophy, the nationals and the Winter Student Games.


American Evan Lysacek, who collected the world bronze in 2005 and
2006, counts on his combination of a quadruple-toe loop and
triple-toe loop which won him his first US national championship
and his second Four Continents title this year.


In the pairs event, European champions Aliona Savchenko and Robin
Szolkowy of Germany hope to dent China's dominance led by
defending champions Pang Qing and Tong Jian.


The ice dance is too close to call, featuring defending champions
Albena Denkova and Maxim Staviski of Bulgaria, European champions
Isabelle Delobel and Olivier Schoenfelder of France among others.

