

With pollution nearing crisis levels in Hong Kong, a few
companies and organisations are doing their bit to ease the
problem by installing their own renewable energy generators.


From a gym that powers lights by harnessing the energy of its
exercising patrons to an airline that has built a wind turbine to
keep its offices going, they are slashing their demands on the
electricity power stations blamed for much of the city's smog.


One of Hong Kong's California Fitness centres has come up with
what appears to be the most novel scheme.


The gym has wired up some of its exercise equipment to capture
the energy produced during workouts and convert it into
electricity.


If a trial scheme at the downtown branch of the American chain
works then management hopes to expand it to all machines and
eventually all its more than 400 gyms worldwide.


"It's a win-win deal -- we save electricity and that means we
produce fewer greenhouse gas emissions," California's president
Steve Clinefelter said.


According to the scheme's mastermind, engineer Lucien Gambarota,
up to 60 percent of the gym's electricity costs could be
immediately eliminated with the expansion of the scheme to all
its exercise bikes and cross-training machines.


The technology used is very simple; most modern exercise machines
feature a dynamo generator that powers the display panels that
tell how fast it is running and how many calories gym users are
burning.


"I simply connected a cable to which feeds to a car battery,"
said Gambarota. "It's not even an invention. It's merely an
application."


Eventually, as the technology improves, he believes it will be
possible to power an entire gym simply by harnessing the labours
of its members. Any excess energy it produces can be stored in a
battery for use on quiet days.


"I don't know why nobody thought about it before," said
Gambarota, claiming the California scheme is the first of its
type in the world.


"It's the sort of thing that lots of people have talked about but
never really tried."


Pollution has become a hot button issue in Hong Kong, which was
clouded in choking fumes for at least a third of last year, a
recent study found.


The problem was so bad that one side of the city's famous harbour
was invisible from the other during at least 50 days of 2006, a
problem that had tourists complaining and the key tourism
industry concerned.


Business is also feeling its effects, with lobby groups claiming
that companies and executives are refusing to locate here because
of the poor air quality.


The government has tried to encourage individual companies to
take their own emissions-reducing initiatives, including a
campaign urging people to cut down on the use of power-hungry air
conditioners.


One government department has taken up the lead, installing solar
panels on its new headquarters that will save up to 300,000 Hong
Kong dollars of taxpayers' money in power bills each year.


"When we grouped all our satellite offices into one we realised
we could start making savings on electrity too," said electrical
and mechanical services department engineer Joe Chan.


The programme has run for a year now and officials are
considering extending it to a major new central harbourside
government office about to be built,


"We only get some of the department's power needs from the panels
but it's a good start -- something like 300,000 kilowatts/hour,"
he said.


With 60 years of operating Hong Kong's flag carrier, Cathay
Pacific felt a turbine was the obvious choice when it decided to
begin a power-producing scheme.


The aviation giant built a mini-wind turbine on the roof of its
Cathay City headquarters earlier this year, which is capable of
producing 1,000 watts of energy.


Again, the current project is a trial which could be extended to
produce all the company's future electricity needs.


Conservationists Friends of the Earth Hong Kong welcomed the
schemes, saying they should be seen as the start of a new era in
awareness of renewable energy.


"These are small but encouraging starts," said campaigns officer
Edwin Lau.

