

The predominantly Hindu island of Bali in Indonesia, the world's
largest Muslim- populated nation, was Sunday gearing up for the
Day of Silence ushering the Hindu New Year.


Households were conducting rites to purify the soul and cleanse
individuals from past sins, while young men were putting the
final touches on huge papier-mache effigies of demons that would
be paraded through the streets after dusk to ward off evil.


Each village will noisily parade the effigies, known as Ogoh-
Ogoh, before they are burned before sunrise to symbolize all evil
leaving the island ahead of the new year. Hindus believe that the
new year is when their gods cleanse and purify the universe.


"To prevent violence between Ogoh Ogoh groups, each effigies can
only be paraded within their community," Bali Police Spokesman
Anthony Samuel Reniban said. In the past, parades often turned
violence when they meet others from other areas with taunts and
jeers leading to street brawls.


For the past three days the pristine beaches of Bali island have
been packed, not with the usual scantily-clad foreign tourists,
but with the devout taking part in cleansing ceremonies ahead of
the Day of Silence.


Markets were bustling with housewives stocking on goods for
Monday where travel is prohibited and all businesses and offices
will remain closed.


On "Nyepi", the day of silence that falls on Monday, Bali's four
million Hindus are prohibited from travelling, working, making
any noise or leaving their homes as they fast for 24 hours.


The silence is also believed to trick demons returning to Earth
into believing that there is nobody left here to haunt.


Made Artha, who chairs the Indonesian Hindu Dharma Council, said
that inactivity and silence during Nyepi day would allow Hindus
to reflect on their deeds in the past year.


"It is a time for reflection and introspection," Artha said.


All residents, no matter their religion, remain at home all day
barring emergencies, while tourists are also expected to respect
the occasion by staying at their hotels.


Households all over the island will remain dark when the sun sets
-- there is a ban on turning on lights or lighting fires. Hotels
are permitted to provide subdued lighting for guests.


The island's usually bustling international airport will be
closed for 24 hours from 6:00 am Monday (2300 GMT Sunday) while
state ferry services linking the island to neighbouring Java and
Lombok islands will also be suspended.


"We have notified all airlines not to operate in Bali on Nyepi
Day. The exception are flights which have to make emergency
landings," spokesman of the Ngurah Rai airport Ahmad Munir said.


The ferry ports of Gilimanuk and Padang Bai at the western and
eastern tip of the island, will also remain closed for 24 hours.


Sarong-clad traditional task forces known as Pecalang will patrol
the streets to ensure the holiday is respected, gently
admonishing anybody ignoring the bans.


Only hospitals, telephone information services, electricity and
water companies are allowed to continue to operate.


The day of silence ends at 6:00 am Tuesday when the new Hindu
year officially begins.

