

The party began for Bangladesh after their stunning World Cup win
over India, but skipper Habibul Bashar reminded team-mates they
soon have to focus on the next match.


"It's very hard to keep your feet on the ground. The boys are not
stopping jumping in the dressing-room," he said.


"It's very important victory for Bangladesh cricket, but tomorrow
we will have to focus again on the next match."


Bangladesh pulled off one of the major upsets of the tournament
when they beat former champions India by five wickets with nine
balls to spare at the Queen's Park Oval here on Saturday.


They enjoyed their biggest day in the one-day event when they
successfully chased India's total of 191, with teenagers Tamim
Iqbal (51), Mushfiqur Rahim (56 not out) and Saqibul Hasan (53)
playing vital knocks.


It was their third victory in the tournament since making their
Cup debut in 1999 and only the second against a Test-playing
nation after beating Pakistan in England. They failed to win a
match in the next edition in South Africa.


The Bangladeshi captain said coming early to the West Indies
helped the team get used to the conditions.


"Coming early here had a huge impact. It helped us know the
conditions, including pitches. The win against New Zealand gave
us a lot of confidence. We realised if we do the job properly, we
can beat the big guns," he said.


The Bangladeshi skipper was referring to his team's two-wicket
victory over Stephen Fleming's New Zealanders in a warm-up game
at Bridgetown in Barbados.


Bashar said the victory over India had boosted the team's
confidence, but they would have to play good, competitive cricket
in the remaining two games against Sri Lanka and debutants
Bermuda to book a berth in the next round.


"As a team, we have put up a good show. This means a lot and now
we can hope to go into the second round. We have a young team and
we fielded well. I hope they continue," he said.


"Beating India is not an easy thing. It is a very important group
and we have got to play hard in every game."


It was Bangladesh's second win over India in 15 one-day
internationals.


Bashar was all praise for his bowlers, saying paceman Mashrafe
Mortaza and left- arm spinners Abdur Razzak and Mohammad Rafique
did extremely well to contain the famed Indian batting line-up on
a good wicket.


"Mortaza was terrific. If your opening bowler takes wickets in
his first spell, then you can hope to bowl the opposition out for
less than 200," said the Bangladeshi captain.


The fast bowler did the early damage when he jolted India with
two early wickets and went on to finish with 4-38. He was named
man of the match. Razzak and Rafique then grabbed three wickets
apiece.


"It is not easy bowling against this Indian batting line-up in
middle overs, but the spinners did very well," said Bashar.


The Bangladeshi skipper dedicated the win to compatriot Manjural
Islam, who died in a road accident near Dhaka on the eve of the
match.


"We dedicate this victory to Manjural Islam," Bashar said of his
team-mate who played six Tests and 25 one-day internationals.


Mortaza also dedicated his man-of-the-match award to "my best
friend".

