

South Africa's Coastal Sharks made it six wins out of six and top
the table after a 27-14 victory over New Zealand's Wellington
Hurricanes here Saturday.


It wasn't pretty, but Dick Muir's charges did the business to
remain the only unbeaten side in this year's Super 14 southern
hemisphere inter-provincial competition.


The home side led 10-9 at the break. It was also the first time
this season that the men from Durban managed to score four tries
in a match and thus earn a bonus point. They now have 25 points,
two more than the Blues who had the weekend off.


The Sharks were quickly on the board thanks to a superb driving
maul by the forwards which brought them to within inches of the
tryline.


When the ball came out young winger JP Pietersen collected a long
pass from Ruan Pienaar and showed great pace to beat the
Hurricanes' tacklers to go in for the score. It was one of the
few occasions the visitors' strong defence was unlocked.


With few try-scoring chances coming the way of either side,
Hurricanes flyhalf Blair Stewart was handed the ball to have a
shot at goal whenever his team entered the Sharks' 22-metre area.


He struck in the 19th and 30th minutes to put his side into the
lead, but the Sharks, whose driving maul caused a number of
problems for the men from Wellington, regained the lead seven
minutes from the interval when Johan Ackermann was driven over
the line by his teammates after the Sharks had opted to kick into
touch for the lineout instead of going for three points.


The Hurricanes reduced the gap to just one point when Stewart
knocked over his third penalty to leave the score at 10-9 in
favour of the home side at the break.


With the Sharks' backs, especially youngsters Pietersen and
Francois Steyn, showing greater skill and intuition than their
more experienced opponents, the home side slowly started getting
the upperhand and it took only six minutes of the second period
for them to go in for their third try.


It came from a lineout drive again and on this occasion it was
No. 8 Jacques Botes who went over. Butch James added the extras.


The Sharks soon scored their fourth try for the bonus point from
exactly the same move that earned Ackermann and Botes their tries
- the drive from the lineout.


On this occasion it was veteran flanker Warren Britz who came up
with the ball and James again added the two points. The Sharks
flyhalf soon struck with his first penalty of the day to stretch
his team's lead to 27-9.


Home team coach Dick Muir then rung the changes and gave former
Springbok captain Bob Skinstad a 20-minute run, but he also lost
lineout stalwart Johan Muller to what appeared to be a serious
neck or shoulder injury.


With the number of changes to both sides, the match turned into
quite a scrappy affair in the final quarter, but the Hurricanes
did manage a try through prop John Schwalger, although the final
15 minutes produced nothing significant for either side.


The Sharks face the Brumbies next week, while the Hurricanes are
up against the Lions at Ellis Park.

