

Two-time French Open champion Rafael Nadal put on an impressive
display of serving and shot making to defeat Andy Roddick 6-4,
6-3 and reach the final of the Pacific Life Open.


Nadal moves to Sunday's final where he will play the winner of
the match between Serbia's Novak Djokovic and Scotland's Andy
Murray.


Nadal, of Spain, has not won an ATP title since Roland Garros,
going winless in 12 consecutive tournaments.


"This has been my best week of tennis in six months," Nadal said.
"I am in the final and it has been a long time."


Nadal had 33 winners, six aces and 12 unforced errors to
Roddick's 22 winners, 16 aces and 15 unforced errors in the one
hour 13 minute match at the main Indian Wells Tennis Garden
stadium.


Nadal served at 87 percent compared to Roddick's 58 percent.
Roddick hit one serve at 236 kph (147 mph).


"I am serving well," Nadal said. "Not as fast as him but I
changed it up, to the side and down the middle. I played good
mentally."


Nadal broke Roddick's serve three times in the match. Heading
into the semis, Roddick had gone 45 service games without facing
a break point on his serve.


Roddick faced the first break point on his serve in the fifth
game of the first set. He would be broken again twice in the
second.


"He played super aggressive," Roddick said of Nadal. "I didn't
serve well and combine that with me shooting myself in the foot
and it was an uphill battle."


Nadal clinched the set on his first match point when Roddick hit
a passing shot into the net.


"A couple of times he just crushed his shots up the line,"
Roddick said.


Nadal now has a 2-1 lead in career meetings against Roddick but
it had been two years since they last played.


Nadal and Roddick had not played since the 2004 Davis Cup final,
where Nadal avenged a loss to Roddick in the US Open two months
earlier with a four-set victory.


The women's final featuring Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia and
Daniela Hantuchova of Slovakia is also on Saturday.


Also taking the court later in the day will be Murray and
Djokovic in the men's semi-final.

