

Ireland will chase a modest target of 133 to beat Pakistan and
knock the Asian superpowers out of the World Cup.


Ireland got the St. Patrick's Day celebrations at Sabina Park off
to a rousing start, when they won the toss, chose to field, and
dismissed Pakistan for 132 in 45.4 overs.


Pakistan's dismal performance means that the 1992 champions, who
lost the opening game to West Indies, will be eliminated from the
tournament if they lose to Ireland's part-timers.


Boyd Rankin was the most successful Irish bowler with three
wickets for 32 runs from nine overs, Andre Botha supported with
the flattering figures of 8-4-5-2, and Kyle McCallan collected
two for 12 from 5.4 overs.


Only four Pakistani batsmen got into double-figures - Kamran
Akmal scored 27, Imran Nazir got 24, and Mohammad Yousuf made 15,
and Mohammad Sami gathered 12.


The Irish bowlers gained favourable bounce and movement from the
hard, grassy surface, but the Pakistani batsmen were also victims
of their own indiscretion and athletic fielding from their
opponents.


Pakistan were set back from early, when Mohammad Hafeez was
caught behind for four off Dave Langford-Smith driving loosely
outside the off-stump in the first over, and Younis Khan was
caught low at first slip for a duck off Rankin in the fourth
over.


Pakistan were 15 for two, and Yousuf came out and added a
valuable 41 for the third wicket with opener Imran Nazir with
little worry.


They appeared to be getting on top of the bowling with both
playing some delightful strokes through off-side, when Yousuf was
caught at backward point off Irish captain Trent Johnson essaying
a square drive in the 13th over.


This precipitated a mini batting collapse for Pakistan, as they
also lost skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq, Nazir, and Shoaib Malik for the
addition of 14 runs in the space of 43 balls.


Inzamam edged a forward defensive stroke and was caught at slip
for one off Andre Botha in the 14th over, and the same bowler
also struck when Nazir too, played forward defensively and edged
to slip in the 18th over.


Pakistan slid to 72 for six in the 21st over, when Shoaib Malik
played forward and inside-edged a catch to the keeper off Kevin
O'Brien. He made nine.


Azhar Mahmood, so late an inclusion in the Pakistan side that the
official team sheets circulated to the media still had Danish
Kaneria listed instead of him, came to the wicket and stemmed the
fall of wickets with Akmal in a stand of 31 for the seventh
wicket.


Rankin however, was brought back for a second spell from the
northern end of the ground, and he removed them both in the space
of four balls of the 31st over.


Both Mahmood, who scored two, and Akmal attempted pull shots,
top-edged, and were caught in the arc between mid-wicket and mid-
on to leave Pakistan on 103 for eight.


Mohammad Sami and Rao Iftikhar came together to temporarily halt
the slide, but McCallan was given another spell from the southern
end, and had Sami caught at long leg in the 44th over before Umar
Gul was caught at deep mid-wicket for one to bring an end to the
innings.


The Irish are playing an unchanged 11, but Pakistan brought Sami
and Mahmood into their 11 for Rana Naved-ul-Hasan and Kaneria.


Pakistan lost the World Cup opener against West Indies by 54 runs
on Tuesday at the same venue, but Ireland tied their opening
match with Zimbabwe on Thursday.


West Indies lead the group with two points, Ireland and Zimbabwe
have one point apiece, and Pakistan have no points, and they are
in danger of not qualifying for the Super Eight quarter-final
stage if they lose to the Irish.

