

Thousands of people demonstrated on Saturday across several
European cities in protest at the war in Iraq, ahead of the
fourth anniversary of the US-led invasion.


Spain saw the biggest demonstrations, where around 20,000 took to
the streets nationwide to protest the US intervention in Iraq in
2003, which was supported at the time by Spain's government but
has been overwhelmingly opposed by the Spanish population.


Following the example of numerous rallies in the United States
and elsewhere in Europe, thousands gathered in Madrid, scene of a
massive protest by more than a million people on February 15,
2003 just ahead of the invasion.


Three dozen marchers clad all in orange in the style of alleged
Islamic radicals held at the US "enemy combatant" camp in
Guantanamo Bay brandished a huge banner as they set off at the
head of the rally.


Others waved placards denouncing US President George W. Bush and
also former Spanish prime minister Jose Maria Aznar for "war
crimes."


Spanish media said some 1,500 people gathered in Barcelona, while
hundreds more also rallied in other cities including Seville,
Cadiz and Granada in the south and Pamplona in the north.


In Turkey, some 6,000 people demonstrated in Istanbul -- 3,000 on
both of the European and Asian sides of the city -- to calls of
"US go!" and "Stop the occupation!"


Turkish public opinion is solidly against the war in Iraq and in
2003 Turkey refused to let US troops use Turkish soil, preventing
the opening of a second front in the north of the country.


Demonstrations also took place in the Greek cities of Athens and
Salonika, where hundreds of protestors called for an "end to the
occupation."


In Athens demonstrators attended a concert before setting off on
a two kilometre (one mile) walk to the police-encircled US
embassy.


And in Denmark several hundred protesters demonstrated against
Denmark's participation in the war, singing songs, holding
speeches and carrying banners outside the US embassy in
Copenhagen, the online edition of daily Politiken reported.


Police kept a close eye on the protest, which remained calm, it
said.


Denmark has had troops in Iraq since August 2003, the majority of
them based around the southern city of Basra under British
command.


Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced last month that
the Scandinavian country would withdraw its 460 troops in August
this year. They are to be replaced by four helicopters and 50
men.


In Nicosia, around 300 demonstrators marched on the US embassy,
together with a number of European left-wing politicians
attending a conference taking place in the Cypriot city.


The rally was organised by left-wing Pancyprian Peace Council and
the key speaker was communist Akel party leader Demetris
Christofias.


"Four years since the invasion of Iraq, has only made it clearer,
as in the case of Afghanistan and Yugoslavia, that the notorious
'New World Order' means none other than war and bloodshed,"
Christofias told the crowd.


The US invaded Iraq on March 20, 2003.

