

Unheralded American Vaughn Taylor fired a three-under par 67 here
Saturday, overcoming two early bogeys to seize a two-stroke lead
after three rounds of the US PGA Arnold Palmer Invitational.


Aided by collapses by compatriot Rocco Mediate and Englishman
Paul Casey after they had each taken a lead, Taylor stood on
eight-under 202 after 54 holes in quest of his third career PGA
title at the 5.5 million-dollar event.


Ben Curtis, the 2003 British Open winner, was second on 204, one
stroke ahead of fellow American Tom Lehman, the 1996 British Open
champion, and Fiji's Vijay Singh, a three-time major winner.


The credentials of his nearest rivals adds to the tension for
Taylor, who has a history of final-round fades, including firing
a 77 in the penultimate group last Sunday at Tampa.


Taylor's final-round average of 74.2 ranks 166th on the US tour.


"I'm just going to go out there and play like I have been playing
the last few days," Taylor said. "I have been playing pretty
well. I need to rekindle some old memories and thoughts and I
will be fine out there."


Taylor's only prior tour triumphs came at the 2004 and 2005 Reno-
Tahoe Open but his third consecutive bogey-free back nine and
some impressive shots while rivals faltered put him atop the
leaderboard.


"I was trying to imagine I was in Reno out there," Taylor said.
"I was just having a lot of fun."


After bogeys at three and four, Taylor made birdies at the two
par-5 holes, six and 12, as well as back-to-back birdies to close
the front nine and another at the 15th hole.


World number one Tiger Woods, who followed an opening 64 with a
73 Friday, fired a par 70 Saturday to lurk within reach at 207.


"It's frustrating. That's just the way it is. I had a chance to
shoot 3 or 4 under par. I just didn't do it," Woods said.


"At least I played better today. At least I did turn it around."


Woods blamed poor putting posture for not performing better on
the greens but said he had expected to be further behind than he
finished.


"I thought the lead would go one lower than it was, but you have
got to make the fairway here. One foot over and you're looking at
bogey," Woods said.


Lehman, who turned 48 last week, intends to make a run at Taylor
with new-found confidence in his putting.


"Even though I didn't make a huge number of putts, my stroke held
up today. I felt comfortable over it," Lehman said.


"The way I've been playing, I'm confident something good is going
to happen soon. At my age, knowing there aren't many
opportunities left, there's nothing to lose."


Four strokes back were Spain's Sergio Garcia, South African
Trevor Immelman and Americans Jerry Kelly, John Rollins and Shaun
Micheel.


Joining Woods on 207 were South African Retief Goosen, Canada's
Stephen Ames plus Casey and Americans Chris Couch, Bo Van Pelt
and Mediate.


Mediate, the 36-hole leader, fired a 76. He opened and closed
with birdies but in between plodded to six bogeys and a double
bogey, squandering a lead of three strokes at one stage.


Casey fired four birdies in the first six holes to grab a two-
stroke edge of his own but bogeys at eight and 10 were followed
by five bogeys in a row starting at the 12th. A birdie at 17 was
followed by a bogey at the 18th.


Ames fared little better, giving back three strokes in the final
four holes.


American Boo Weekley received a two-stroke penalty on the second
hole for improper tending of the pin, dropping him to 209
entering the final round.

