

Italy captain Marco Bortolami refused to let Saturday's crushing
home defeat to Ireland overshadow his side's best ever Six
Nations championship.


The Italians came into the match on the back of an unprecedented
two wins in a Six Nations campaign, but Ireland proved too strong
for the Azzurri, running in eight tries in a 51-24 win.


Ireland's victory left them dreaming of a first Six Nations title
since 1985, but their hopes were cruelly dashed as France beat
Scotland 46-19 to retain the trophy.


Ireland and France both finished the tournament level on eight
points, but the French claimed the title because of their
slightly better points difference, courtesy of Elvis Vermeulen's
dramatic last-minute try.


Bortolami insisted Italy, who finished ahead of the two teams
they beat, Scotland and Wales, could hold their heads up high
despite their humbling defeat on the final day.


"It was a disappointing result, but we have no reason to feel
ashamed," he said.


"The defeat has not changed what we have achieved this year. We
have had good wins against Scotland and Wales and we are very
satisfied with that.


"The tournament bodes well for the future. Overall I would say it
has been very positive."


Girvan Dempsey and Denis Hickie scored two tries apiece for
Ireland while Simon Easterby, Gordon D'Arcy, Shane Horgan and
Ronan O'Gara chipped in with one each.


Italy's two tries came from Marco Bortolami and Roland De
Marigny.


Italy coach Pierre Berbizier said his side's downfall was their
failure to keep possession.


"Our stategy was to keep the ball and the first two Irish tries
came from turnovers," he lamented.


Ireland Ireland coach Eddie O'Sullivan insisted Italy were tough
nuts to crack, despite his side's comfortable winning margin.


"When they keep ball they are very difficult to play against," he
said.


"It was a very physical battle today and we had to make sure that
we were accurate in our execution."


O'Sullivan admitted losing the championship right at the death
was very cruel.


"It's pretty tough to take, but that's the problem when you kick-
off early," he said.


"We didn't have a crystal ball, while France knew what they
needed to get the job done.


"We gave it our best shot and it makes for great excitement, but
it wasn't meant to be."

