

Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe is responsible for the beatings
of opposition leaders because he has made it clear it is a
"deliberate act of policy," Britain charged Saturday.


"One can only hold him responsible," British Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett said in an interview recorded for BBC television
on Sunday when asked if she held him personally responsible for
the violence.


"He is in charge of the government," Beckett said on BBC1's
Politics Show, according to a transcript of the interview
distributed at the weekend.


"He has made it very clear that this is a deliberate act of
policy on the part of the government of Zimbabwe and that he is
indifferent to the real, I think horror, that is felt right
across the international community," she said.


Beckett said Britain and its allies were "pressing very hard" for
action to be taken in the UN Human Rights Council.


"This is a new body, fairly recently set up, this is one of its
first major tests and there's general agreement that that is the
right place to call for action against the government of Robert
Mugabe," she said.


"So that is what we are doing," Beckett added.


Beckett is also calling for a tightening of sanctions the
European Union slapped on Mugabe and his coterie after he won
elections in 2002 which the opposition insists were rigged.


The travel ban and also an assets freeze extend to anyone who has
"taken part in activities which seriously endangered democracy,
respect for human rights and the rule of law in Zimbabwe."


Those measures cover some 130 people, including Mugabe, his
current and former cabinets and leaders of his ruling Zanu-PF
party.


She repeated earlier remarks that people directly involved in the
violence against opposition leaders must be properly identified
to see whether they are already on the list of people targeted
for sanctions.


"We'll be talking to other EU colleagues about how we can
strengthen the EU's targeted bans," she said.


Pressure has mounted on Mugabe since police last Sunday crushed
an opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) rally in
Harare.


Its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, and other opposition activists
were arrested for defying a police ban and then beaten while in
police custody.

