

Millions of revelers in the United States, Ireland and across the
world celebrated St. Patrick's Day with parades, colorful
festivities and traditional merrymaking.


New York's famed Fifth Avenue echoed with strains of drums and
bagpipes as marching bands made their way through crowds of
people, many wearing green hats and scarves, others wearing kilts
or with shamrocks painted on their faces.


Mayor Michael Bloomberg marched with the fire department, whose
members received a huge cheer from New Yorkers as they passed by
in the 246th annual parade in near freezing temperatures after a
snow storm on Friday.


The US Stars and Stripes mingled with the Irish tricolor under
clear skies, despite piles of snow lining the sidewalks.


Irish pubs on along Third Avenue were meanwhile doing roaring
business with revelers at The Blarney Stone and Oneill's spilling
out onto the street.


Organizers estimated that up to two million people would take
part in the festivities in New York.


But the parade itself has been dogged by controversy in recent
years, notably over excluding openly gay marchers.


Contentious this year was a decision to move New York
firefighters from their traditional spot at the front of the
parade on complaints that the firefighters always showed up
drunk.


Hundreds of thousands of people were expected to join a parade of
marching bands in Savannah, Georgia, with one of the largest
concentrations of Irish Catholics in the US South.


More than one in 10 Americans, 34 million people, claim Irish
ancestry, according to the census bureau in the United States,
which has nine cities named after Dublin.


In the original Dublin, a parade with a multicultural theme
involving substantial contributions from new immigrant
communities, passed up to 500,000 people as it snaked through the
center of the city.


The feast day of Ireland's patron saint, when much Guinness and
other alcohol is traditionally drunk, showcases the Emerald Isle
to give an early kick-start to its tourism season.


The festival generates 60 million euros (79 million dollars) in
tourism revenue, culminating in the capital with a televised
parade watched by an estimated worldwide audience of six million.


Now Dublin's biggest annual event, St Patrick's Day has taken
root in other countries, especially those where the Irish have
settled. After centuries of emigration, an estimated 70 million
people worldwide claim an Irish connection.


Mingling with the crowds on Dublin's streets was Prime Minister
Bertie Ahern, just back from Washington where he had presented US
President George W. Bush with the traditional bowl of shamrock in
the White House.


"It is great to see all our new Irish all dressed up in green.
They all come out and enjoy our St Patrick's Day and that's
nice," Ahern said, referring to the many immigrants attracted by
Ireland's economic boom.


St Patrick's Day is one of the most recognized national holidays
on the global calendar and is an excuse to party from Pretoria to
Paris, Sydney and Shanghai.


Even reclusive North Korea sent greetings to Irish President Mary
McAleese while in China. Shanghai held its first official St
Patrick's Day party.


The Tokyo Tower, the tallest structure in Japan and a major
tourist attraction, turned green late Saturday.


In Sydney, with a sizeable expatriate community, 60,000 revelers
were out in force although official St. Patrick's celebrations
were held last week.


In Belgium, a Northern Ireland brass band was to lead the first
ever St. Patrick's Day parade through the Menin Gate at Ypres to
remember Irish soldiers from both sides of the border who died
during World War I.


In Jamaica, Ireland's cricket team clinched a sensational three-
wicket victory over Pakistan, sending the former champions
crashing out of the World Cup at Sabina Park.


Chasing a revised target of 128 from 47 overs in gloomy
conditions, Ireland held their nerve to hit the jackpot with 32
balls to spare, when captain Trent Johnson smashed Azhar Mahmood
over long-on for six.


However, the rugby team gave compatriots an excuse to drink,
after coming agonizingly close to its first Six Nations title in
22 years after running in eight tries in a 51-24 romp over Italy
in Rome, but their hopes were cruelly dashed as France beat
Scotland 46-19 in Paris to retain the trophy.


Amid the dancing and drinking, Ireland's Roman Catholic Primate,
Archbishop Sean Brady, reminded people to acknowledge the
importance of St. Patrick.


The patron saint, whose feast day has been in the Christian
calendar since the ninth century, is credited with converting the
country to Christianity and to have baptized thousands, ordained
priests and set up churches and monasteries.

