

Chinese divers are ready to pave their path to Beijing with gold
at the World Swimming Championships this week, but face stiff
competition from Canada, Russia and the United States.


China continues to dominate the sport and arrived at the worlds
after s clean- sweep of all 10 titles at the Asian Games in
December -- the first time in the event's history that one
country had won every gold medal.


While the competition in Melbourne, starting Monday, will be
stiffer, China is again expected to come out on top as the race
towards the Olympics hots up.


They are aiming to better the disappointing five titles won at
the last championships in Montreal two years ago.


Led by veteran Olympic champion Guo Jingjing, China has brought a
team of 14 but are without three Olympic champions -- Peng Bo, Hu
Jia and Yang Jinghui, who have all been sidelined with injury.


But China's depth is such that in addition to Guo two other
Olympic gold medal winners -- Wu Minxia and Li Ting -- represent
the country here.


Guo is defending her 3m springboard title and has again teamed up
with Wu Minxia following a 28-month break after they won the
women's 3m synchronised springboard title at the Athens Olympics.


"It's good, because we have been partners for nearly four years.
We are familiar with each other, but we still need more
practice," said Wu in the lead-up to the competition at the
Melbourne Sports and Aquatics Centre.


Guo, who will retire after the Beijing Olympics, is equally
excited about being back with Wu, who replaces Li Ting.


"We have been together for many years. Though we were not
partners for some time, I feel good on all accounts."


Wu was narrowly beaten by Guo in Montreal for the 3m springboard
title and also missed out on the 1m gold to Canada's Blythe
Hartley.


Hartley, along with compatriots Alexandre Despatie and Emilie
Heymans, are seen as the biggest threats to the Chinese.


Hartley defends her 1m crown and will also dive in the 3m and 3m
synchronized categories in her quest to again derail the Chinese
challenge.


Heymans will team with Hartley in the synchro and also take on
the 3m springboard and platform dives.


Despatie is the reigning 1m and 3m springboard world champion and
in Melbourne will tackle the 3m springboard, 3m synchro and 10m
platform.


The 21-year-old has been in electric form in the lead-up having
recovered from a neck injury last May that disrupted his season.


He broke the Canadian 3m springboard record at the world
championship trials in January.


"Consistency is the key in this sport and that's what I'm most
happy about in my performances," said Despatie, who enchanted
diving enthusiasts when he won the 10m platform gold at the 1998
Commonwealth Games at the age of 13.


"Right now I have a lot of confidence. The reverse is my make or
break dive. But it's going well lately, I feel really comfortable
when I execute that dive."


American Laura Wilkinson is back to defend her platform title.


Diving begins Monday with medals in the women's 10m synchronized
platform and the men's 3m synchronized springboard.

