

Some 75,000 people marched Saturday in the northern Spanish city
of Pamplona to protest at a proposal by radical Basques to merge
their northern region with the adjoining region of Navarra,
regional officials said.


The marchers descended on the city centre at the behest of the
conservative regional Navarra government which called for
demonstrations after Batasuna, the banned political wing of armed
separatist group ETA, proposed merging the two regions as a means
of boosting radicals' push for Basque independence.


Participants carried banners reading "jurisdiction and freedom.
Navarra is not negotiable."


ETA, fighting for an independent Basque state, insists on an
historical link with Navarra but Spain's 1978 constitution says
the two could only merge if the people of Navarra, or Nafarroa in
the Basque language, formally agree.


The regions are administered separately but pro-independence
Basque nationalists would like to see it become joined one day to
the Basque provinces of Vizcaya, Alava, Guipuzcoa and the French
Basque region.


Navarra, which is partially Basque-speaking, is viewed by Basque
nationalists as culturally integral to their vision of an
independent Basque state.


Saturday's protest came two months before regional elections in
Spain and currently Batasuna cannot take part in the Basque poll
as the Spanish judiciary banned the group in 2003 for its links
with ETA, blamed for 819 deaths during a four-decade violent
independence campaign.


Mariano Rajoy, leader of Spain's opposition right-wing Popular
Party, participated in the protest, which the Socialist
government decried for stirring partisan passions.


Spain First Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la
Vega earlier said that Navarra's status would not change without
residents' approval as "Navarra is not negotiable."


But Rajoy, whose party last week brought tens of thousands onto
the streets of Madrid in protest at the release on parole of a
Basque separatist jailed for 25 murders, insisted Saturday's
marchers were merely "exercising their democratic right" to
protest.

