

Ian Huntley, serving a minimum 40-year jail term for murdering
two girls, belongs to a class of killers who should die in
prison, Britain's de facto justice minister Lord Charles Falconer
said.


The Lord Chancellor told the Sunday Telegraph that Huntley and
Robert Black, jailed for at least 35 years for the kidnap-murders
of three girls and an attempted abduction, should never be freed
because of the "heinousness" of their crimes.


The newspaper said Huntley and Black are not among the list of 35
killers who were told that they will spend the rest of their
lives in jail because they were not given "whole life" tariffs.


Human rights activists warned that when Huntley and Black
approach the end of their sentences, their lawyers could use
Falconer's remarks to argue that their cases have been prejudged.


Huntley, a former school caretaker, was given two life sentences
in 2003 for the murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. The
ruling meant he would be able to apply for parole shortly before
his 70th birthday.


The 10-year-old friends disappeared in the town of Soham, eastern
England, in August 2002, sparking one of the biggest police
investigations Britain has seen for years.


Huntley was arrested after their bodies were found in nearby
countryside. During the trial he admitted being responsible for
the deaths, but said it was an accident.


Falconer's comments follow those by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord
Nicholas Addison Phillips, who called for an end to mandatory
life sentences for killers.


Jails, where there is an overcrowding problem, would otherwise
become full of "geriatric lifers," Phillips warned.


"Well there will be some (geriatric lifers) and I think if you
want confidence in the system that's got to be the position,"
Falconer said.


Black, the Lord Chancellor said, should stay in for the rest of
his life, adding: "It is extremely difficult to see circumstances
in which Ian Huntley could ever be released."


"It is both because of dangerousness but it also because society
does require retribution in those sorts of cases and if it
doesn't get it then people will not be confident of the criminal
justice system," he said.

