

Schalke coach Mirko Slomka praised his side's ability to squeeze
out a precious win while admitting the Bundesliga leaders were
sub-standard in Saturday's 1-0 home victory over VfB Stuttgart.


This was Schalke's first win in five games, but has opened a six-
point lead over second-placed Werder Bremen, who are in action
against Mainz 05 at home on Sunday, as Serbian defender Mladen
Krstajic's second-half goal sealed the win.


Slomka, who signed a two-year extension to his contract last
week, said "This was no one of our better performances, but we
have lost games while playing much better football, so it's good
to see the team grinding out a result."


After Stuttgart squandered several chances to take the lead, the
break through Schalke craved came in the 76th minute when the
visitors' defence failed to deal with a cross.


Schalke striker Kevin Kuranyi headed the ball goal-bound, but
Stuttgart keeper Timo Hildebrand failed to hold on to it and
Krstajic pounced on the opportunity to slot home the goal from
just two metres out.


It was tough luck for third-placed Stuttgart whose Thomas
Hitzlsperger had gone close on numerous occasions.


Schalke have now thrown down the gauntlet to Bremen to close the
gap against rising-stars Mainz 05, but Werder welcome back
Miroslav Klose, the veteran German national side's striker, who
has shaked off his back injury and looks to add to the 11 goals
he has scored this season after two weeks out.


"There is still some bruising, but I am confident enough it of
and I feel good, in any case, so well that I can play," said the
28-year-old.


Relegation-threatened Eintracht Frankfurt did themselves a huge
favour by scrambling a 1-0 win at home to Bayern Munich, which
dented the Bavarians' aspirations of capturing a 21st Bundesliga
title and leaves them now nine-points behind Schalke.


Having gone into the match just one-place off the relegation
zone, Frankfurt's midfielder Christoph Preuss bagged a superb
78th-minute goal from a bicycle kick to keep Munich fourth and
move his side up three places to 12th.


Having announced in mid-week that he will coach Bayern for
another season, veteran Ottmar Hitzfeld was far from happy with
his side, who play AC Milan in the Champions League quarter-
finals early next month.


"This was a quite bitter defeat," said Hitzfeld.


"We lacked creativity and we made life comfortable for Frankfurt
in embarrassment. We were dominated and just couldn't put
together any meaningful passes."


In his first game in charge, Borussia Dortmund coach Thomas
Doll's side picked up a valuable point from their draw at home to
fifth-placed Nuremburg, but they still dropped two places to
fifteenth, one above the drop zone.


Hanover drew 0-0 with Hamburg, while VfL Wolfsburg enjoyed a 3-1
win over second-from-bottom Bochum after taking a 2-0 half-time
lead at home.


Ghana international Isaac Boakye opened the scoring in the 21st
minute when he drew Bochum goalkeeper Jaroslav Drobny off his
line and fired his shot home.


And the hosts extended their lead when defender Alexander Madley
slipped his marker from a corner and blasted his header past
Drobny from point-blank range.


But Bochum got themselves back in the match thanks to their Greek
striker Theofanis Gekas, who gave his side a 66th minute life-
line to become the league's joint top-scorer, alongside injured
Stuttgart striker Mario Gomez, with 13 goals.


But Brazilian midifielder Marcelo Marcelinho made the win safe
with a goal in the 83rd minute.


And two goals in five minutes handed ninth-placed Alemannia
Aachen a 2-0 win over third-from-bottom Arminia Bielefeld after
23-year-old striker Jan Schlaudraff bagged his eighth goal of the
season with 19 minutes to play, only for Romanian midfielder
Laurentiu Reghecampf to convert a penalty soon after.


Bayer Leverkusen take on Borussia Moenchengladbach on Sunday.


And on Friday, newly-promoted Energie Cottbus enjoyed a 1-0 win
at Hertha Berlin thanks to a goal by their Romanian striker
Sergiu Radu just after the half-time break.

