

PRAGUE, March 18, 2007 (AFP) - Just 10 weeks after historically
sweeping into power as part of the new Czech centre-right
coalition government, the Green Party has a dual battle on its
hands.


Not only do the Czech Greens face the challenge of defending the
victories they clinched on environmental policies, but the
party's credibility among its own rank-and-file has been called
into question.


After years in the political wilderness, the Czech Greens now
hold four of 18 cabinet seats after entering government for the
first time in January, as Europe's strongest Green Party in
power.


But despite its success, the party has been put on the defensive
as its dominant partner in the coalition, Prime Minister Mirek
Topolanek's Civic Democrats, seek to exert their power.


"The Civic Democrats are trying to claw back some of the
concessions they made when signing the government programme,"
political analyst and university lecturer Petr Just told AFP.


After seven months of wrangling to form a stable government,
Topolanek's minority right-wing government was finally forced to
rely on the support of the Christian Democrat and Green parties.


As a result, it conceded to Green Party demands for a ban on new
nuclear plants and coal mining, the introduction of lorry bans
and and other steps to brake the road transport boom at the
crossroads of Europe as well as a pledge to improve the lot of
the country's large gypsy minority.


Green Party leader Martin Bursik, who is also deputy premier and
environment minister, acknowledged his party's goals were
ambitious. "We have so many concrete targets and aims that it
will be hard to fulfill all of these."


However, he has already had to fend off a bid by the Civic
Democrats who have a strong eurosceptic wing to take a lead on
the EU constitution.


And his flagship nuclear and mining bans have come under attack
from the Civic Democrat pro-nuclear Minister of Industry Martin
Riman.


Despite championing open and honest government, a deputy premier
from the Greens' other coalition partner, the Christian
Democrats, has hung onto his post after being charged with
corruption.


To add to his woes, the Green-tinted government policies he
wrested from the right-wing have not stopped growing criticism
from within the Greens that the party has lost its way.


Disillusionment among its members was evident at last month's
Green Party congress, when one angry delegate shouted: "Long live
the opportunistic Green Party".


Shortly afterwards, the independant news weekly Tyden commented:
"The party has lost its position as a promising political
alternative."


Nevertheless, the congress re-elected Bursik as party leader and
backed his call for the Greens to reject a national referendum on
a US proposal to site part of an anti-missile base on Czech soil.


"This was a sort of test how much congress delegates understand
that we are part of government, we are not part of opposition or
not even NGO activists," he said.


For other Green Party ministers, the challenge is a lack of
experience.


Dzamila Stehlikova, the Green minister for human rights and
minorities, faced two embarrassing setbacks this month when
evicted gypsies dismissed offers of aid as a mere "gesture."


Meanwhile, Education Minister Dana Kuchtova's reported call for
the immediate shutdown of a Soviet-designed Czech nuclear plant
has brought her into the line of fire from her right-wing
colleagues.


And Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg's enthusiastic support
of the US anti- missile base has fuelled criticism over why the
party placed him in the high- profile position.

