

Finns go to the polls on Sunday in legislative elections that are
expected to return Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen to power thanks
to his strong economic record.


Vanhanen, a former journalist who was handed the reins of
government in 2003 after just 10 weeks' experience as a cabinet
minister, has grown into the role of prime minister to become
Finland's most popular government leader ever.


His Centre Party, which heads a centre-left coalition with the
Social Democrats and the tiny Swedish People's Party, is widely
expected to remain the biggest party in the country.


On Saturday, Vanhanen said he was confident of being returned to
power.


"My feeling is excellent ... but the election result is the only
one that counts," a visibly upbeat prime minister told AFP as he
campaigned in a shopping mall in Espoo, Finland's second-biggest
city.


Vanhanen, often described as lacking charisma, is widely
respected for his competence and detailed knowledge of the
issues. His strongest asset in the election campaign, say
observers, has been his track record on the economy.


Finland registered growth in 2006 of 5.5 percent, unemployment
has been reduced from nine percent to about 7.5 percent in four
years, the state budget now has a surplus and Finns' purchasing
power is one of the strongest in Europe.


Vanhanen's Centre Party was credited with 24.7 percent of voter
sympathies in a final opinion poll published on Friday, while the
Social Democrats garnered 21.3 percent and the opposition
Conservative National Coalition Party 20.4 percent.


The real election fight is for second place, observers say.


The second-place winner could determine whether Vanhanen chooses
to continue his centre-left coalition, or shift to a centre-right
alliance, following an election campaign that has focused on
health care, care for the elderly and job creation.


Social Democratic supporters were out en masse at the weekend,
handing out 100,000 roses, the party's symbol, in a bid to
mobilise their voters so as to hang on to their place in
government.


Only 70 percent of Social Democratic voters have said they plan
to cast their ballots, a low figure in Finland and likely to help
the Conservatives, whose voters are expected to be more active.


In the last general election in 2003, the Centre Party won by
just 6,000 votes, and in 1999 the Social Democrats won by a
margin of 10,000.


Some 4.2 million Finns are entitled to vote for the 200 members
of parliament.


Polling stations open at 9:00 am (0700 GMT) and are due to close
at 8:00 pm (1800 GMT). Preliminary results, including those of
the 1.19 million voters who opted to vote in advance, are
expected shortly after the polls close, while definitive results
are expected around 11:00 pm (2100 GMT).

