

Runs and wickets are piling up at a resplendent Sabina Park,
basking in its 20 -million-dollar World Cup facelift.


But at nearby St Catherine, the only score the locals are keeping
is the body count.


Newspapers here are dominated by stories of gang and gun crime in
Jamaica which has the seventh highest murder rate in the world.


Most depressing of all is the number of children caught up in the
crossfire.


Last week, a brother and sister, aged 15 and six, were gunned
down in what was described as an 'execution-style' killing.


The gruesome murders of Tavia and Tajax Smith, both shot in the
head, were typical of an island which last year saw 65 children
murdered.


"It is a shame that such callous disregard for the lives of
children is being displayed in the midst of hosting the cricket
World Cup," said Jamaican Labour Party politician Derrick Smith.


"But it will be an even more serious blight if it continues
unabated for the rest of the year."


Eric Scott, the principal of the children's school, said: "This
is just senseless killing. There are no safe zones anywhere. No-
one can escape the wrath of modern criminals."


On the same day, in the Spanish Town area, two children were
orphaned when their pregnant mother and partner were gunned down.
The mother's three-year-old boy witnessed the attack.


It was against this background that International Cricket Council
(ICC) chief executive Malcolm Speed arrived to lend his support
to his organisation's promotion of a UNICEF campaign to raise
awareness of children living with AIDS, another social problem.


The area's depressing environment was brought into sharp focus
for Speed who was told by local students that crime and
promiscuity were closely linked.


"You find that a lot of young women have sex with men because
they need money to go to school or to buy things that they need,"
said one woman


There are also huge financial implications to the spiralling
crime rate.


Just last week, the Canadian High Commissioner to Jamaica, Denis
Kingsley, said that the murder rate will always deter foreign
investment.


"What should I tell someone (who might be a potential business
interest) when they ask about the crime situation?" he told
businessmen.


Kingsley said that the population of Canada was 32.7 million with
Toronto having about 2.5 million people, almost the same as
Jamaica's entire population.


However, he claimed there were 658 murders recorded in Canada in
2005 and about 54 killings in Toronto, as opposed to 1,674
murders in Jamaica for the same period.

