

The UN Security Council braces this week for a dramatic showdown
with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad over a vote on new
sanctions to prod Tehran to comply with demands that it suspend
uranium enrichment.


South African Ambassador Dumasani Kumalo, who chairs the
15-member Council this month, said Friday there had been no
objection from members to a request by the mercurial Iranian
leader to attend the session at which a new draft sanctions
resolution is to be adopted.


The full council was set to meet Wednesday afternoon to review
the compromise text agreed Thursday by the council's five
permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the
United States -- plus Germany.


A vote on the draft, which toughened sanctions already adopted by
the council in December, was likely to follow a few days later,
diplomats said.


Friday the United States urged Ahmadinejad to change course and
agree to freeze his country's sensitive nuclear fuel program,
which the West suspects hides a bid to acquire nuclear weapons.


The State Department said Iran had applied via the US embassy in
Switzerland for visas for Ahmadinejad and his delegation and
pledged that the United States, as host country, would do his
best to comply.


"I would just note for you that we have in the past issued visas
for him as well as his travelling party when they've gone to the
UN," department spokesman Sean McCormack said.


Washington and Tehran have not had direct diplomatic ties since
the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.


Under the UN charter, a member state not sitting on the Security
Council is entitled to attend deliberations that directly affects
it and speak, but without the right to vote.


"Should the American government issue a visa, I will definitely
participate in the Security Council meeting and defend Iran's
nuclear rights," Ahmadinejad said last week, even though he
slammed the UN's most powerful body as "lacking legitimacy".


This would mark the Iranian leader's third visit to the UN in 18
months. His last visit was in September when he spent three days
defending Iran's right to nuclear technology, railing against the
United States and expressing readiness to end the nuclear
standoff.


The draft crafted by the six major powers seeking to rein in
Iran's nuclear ambitions was turned over to the council's 10 non-
permanent members with assurances that they would have enough
time to review it, refer it to their capitals and amend it if
necessary.


"We will not be a rubber stamp," said Kumalo, speaking on behalf
of the 10.


Iran rejects Western charges that its nuclear program is aimed at
producing atomic weapons, insisting that it is entirely peaceful
and aims only to fuel nuclear power stations -- an activity
allowed under international treaties.


The new draft would bar Iran from exporting arms and restrict the
sale or transfer to Tehran of equipment including battle tanks,
combat aircraft, attack helicopters and missiles.


It calls for a voluntary travel ban on additional officials
involved in Iran's "proliferation-sensitive" nuclear and
ballistic missile programs.


It also urges voluntary restrictions on "new commitments for
grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to Iran" as
well as extending an assets freeze to additional entities and
individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and missile programs.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply with repeated UN
demands or face "further appropriate measures" (economic
sanctions but no military action) under Article 41 of the UN
Charter.


The United States says it wants a diplomatic solution to the
nuclear standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option.

