

Serbia's Novak Djokovic easily won the battle of the European
teenagers beating Andy Murray 6-2, 6-3 in the semi-final of the
ATP/WTA Pacific Life Open on Saturday.


Djokovic moves to Sunday's final where he will play the
lefthanded Spaniard Rafael Nadal.


Djokovic win or lose against World No 2 Nadal said this week will
do a lot to boost his confidence.


"It means a lot because this is considered one of the biggest
tournaments outside of the Grand Slams," Djokovic said.


"It is going to do a lot for my confidence and gives me
motivation, because I have reached the finals of a huge
tournament with all the best players in the world playing in it."


Djokovic is seeking his fourth career title and second victory of
2007 after winning in Adelaide.


"I have made some great results the last couple of months, last
year," he said.


Britain's No 1 Murray said he regretted starting his semi-final
match after injuring his left ankle the day before in his three-
set thriller with Tommy Haas.


"A bit of unprofessional decision on my part to have gone on,"
Murray said. "I wanted to go out and try to play and maybe see if
I could move okay.


"I didn't know until I got on the court how bad it was going to
be. I did it and it was maybe the wrong decision."


Said Djokovic, "It is not pleasant to see your opponent playing
like that. For me it was very important to stay focussed and stay
in the match because Andy is the kind of player who can come back
right away and boom he can make a break."


Scotland's Murray heads to Miami for next week's tournament with
a 19-4 record this year.


Murray's match on Friday night was delayed 10 minutes after he
tumbled hard, twisting his ankle and landing on his hip and knee.


After having his ankle taped, he resumed playing with a bloody
knee and than saved two match points in beating Haas 3-6, 6-3,
7-6 (10/8) in a tiebreaker.


Asked for his prediction on Sunday's final between Nadal and
Djokovic, Murray said Nadal would be hard to beat.


"It depends on how Nadal plays," Murray said. "If he plays his
best then nine times out of ten he is going to win. He is a great
player and has won two Slams and made the final of Wimbledon, so
if he plays his best he will win."

