

The Etosha National Park, once the world's largest game reserve
and home to 114 different mammal species, celebrates its
centenary this month as the jewel in Namibia's crown.


Hundreds of thousands of tourists flock each year to Etosha in
the northern of the mainly desert nation of around two million
people, making it a mainstay of the economy for a country which
gained its independence only 17 years ago.


Apart from elephants, rhinos and big cats such as lion and
cheetah, it is also home to 340 species of birds -- including
migratory pink flamingos -- who find a breeding haven in the
massive mineral pan which gives the park its name.


Etosha, literally "the great void," refers to the shallow
depression of some 5,000 square kilometres (1,900 square miles),
covering around a quarter of the park which was once a lake but
now only fills up with water during a good rainy season.


Each year some 300,000 tourists, mainly from Europe and the US,
visit the park, nearly half of Namibia's annual tourism flow of
700,000.


"Etosha is the jewel in our tourism crown," said Tobie Aupindi,
managing director of Namibia Wildlife Resorts (NWR).


One of Africa's oldest game parks, Etosha was once a massive
93,240 square kilometres until South Africa's apartheid regime
trimmed it to 22,270 square kilometres -- half the size of
Switzerland -- in the 1970s to create homelands for different
ethnic groups.


Namibia finally gained independence in 1990 but a lack of funds
in the national budget has made the duties of nature conservation
officers more difficult and the three tourism resorts of
Okaukuejo, Halali and Namutoni within Etosha are in dire need of
modernisation.


"The outdated style of the accommodation facilities date back to
the sixties," said Aupindi.


"We are renovating and modernising all tourism facilities at
Etosha to world class standard, as especially international
tourists expect modern accommodation."


Guided walks and night drives will now be offered to attract
tourists, along with more modern facilities and attractions built
with the 10.5 million Namibian dollars (1.35 million dollars, one
million euros) set aside by government for renovations.


Proclaimed as a game reserve on March 22, 1907, by then colonial
governor Friedrich von Lindequist of Imperial Germany, Etosha
provides a large slice of the tourism industry in the country,
the third largest economic sector after mining and fishing.


"This translates into nearly three billion dollars annually and
tourism provides over 50,000 direct and indirect jobs," said
Aupindi.


However the San bushmen, southern Africa's oldest people, evicted
by South African apartheid authorities 40 years ago, are claiming
ancestral land rights in Etosha.


Of the 30,000 San living in Namibia, the 9,000 Hai//kom are the
largest group and they have lived in Etosha for centuries.


"We want Etosha back as our land," says Naftali Soroseb, a
Hai//kom and board member of the Working Group of Minorities in
Southern Africa (Wimsa).


"We are landless and derive no benefit from tourism activities in
Etosha," Soroseb told AFP. "We are also left out of the centenary
celebrations."


Government, heeding the call of the Hai//kom San, is negotiating
with owners of farms bordering the park to buy them out.


"(This will) start tourism activities there engaging the Hai//kom
so that they earn an income from tourism," said Tourism Minister
Willem Konjore at the recent centenary launch.


Some 15 percent of Namibia's 824,268 square kilometres are
protected areas, either parks or conservancies, the latter being
managed by rural communities, who obtain an income from tourism,
controlled trophy hunting and from crafts they produce and sell.


Last year the environment and tourism ministry received a 8.2
million- dollar (6.1 million-euro) boost to manage its major
parks, especially Etosha, from the United Nation's Global
Environment Facility (GEF).


The money would go towards the SPAN Project, (Strengthening the
Protected Area Network), and will allow for a link of the
Skeleton Coast Park to the western boundaries of Etosha to open
ancient migratory routes of large species like elephants,
antelopes and giraffe.


"This is the largest external funding we received for our park
management efforts ever," said Malan Lindeque, permanent
secretary in the tourism ministry.


"SPAN will improve national policy planning for better park
management for conservation, strengthening of the ministry's
institutional capacity and to drastically improve site-level
management of the selected parks, the most important being
Etosha."

