

Coal, the dominant fuel for electric power in the US, China and
elsewhere, faces an uncertain future amid growing concerns about
global warming and a race for new ways to curb emissions.


Some experts say coal can still play an important role with new
technology being developed to capture and store carbon dioxide
emissions underground.


But environmental activists, who have long seen coal as the
biggest culprit in global warming emissions, cite an urgent need
for incentives to reduce greenhouse gases from power plants.


A study released Wednesday by the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology concluded that coal can remain an attractive option
from an environmental and economic standpoint if the right steps
are taken.


The key, the study concluded, is to move forward with technology
to "sequester" or capture and store carbon dioxide (CO2) gases,
blamed for global warming.


There are no technical obstacles to sequestration of CO2 in
geological formations, but this has not yet been used on a scale
large enough to get commercial support, the study authors said,
and no regulatory framework exists.


The report said power plant operators will only have an incentive
to use the new technology if there is a tax or cap on carbon
emissions.


"What is needed is to demonstrate an integrated system of
capture, transportation, and storage of CO2, at scale," the
report said.


In the meantime, coal is a front-burner issue with energy needs
increasing worldwide even as concerns about global warming are on
the rise.


In China, an average of one new coal-burning power plant is being
started up each week, with little attention paid to emission
controls. Coal provides 80 percent of China's electricity and
two-thirds of its energy needs. And fast- growing India depends
on coal for 70 percent of its electricity.


In the United States, which produces half its electric power from
coal, utilities have tentative plans for over 150 new coal-fired
plants by 2030, even though Congress is mulling ways to curb
greenhouse emissions.


"The worst thing we could do in terms of global warming would be
to build more coal-fired power plants," said Josh Dorner of the
Sierra Club, who said most of the plants would use "the oldest
and dirtiest technologies."


Earlier this year, a private equity group offered to buy Texas
utility giant TXU, hoping to sweeten the offer with a pledge to
scrap eight of the group's 11 planned coal-burning generators.


The MIT report warns of a "perverse incentive" to bring new coal-
fired plants into service in anticipation of stricter emissions
standards, with utilities expecting these would be exempted or
"grandfathered" in any new regulations.


"Congress should act to close this 'grandfathering' loophole
before it becomes a problem," the report said.


The MIT scientists said new coal plants that meet strict criteria
for capturing greenhouse gases would likely have to be built from
scratch, with retrofits impractical.


This suggests the use of new "clean-coal" technologies, that also
remove conventional pollutants such and sulfur and nitrogen
oxides. Some call for "gasification" or converting the coal to a
gas before burning, or using air- blown "pulverized" coal.


Ernest Moniz, an MIT professor and co-author of the study, said
these new technologies including carbon capturing could add about
50 percent to the wholesale cost of electric power and about 25
percent to the retail cost.


With those added costs, "it's kind of a horse race" with other
sources of power in terms of the price of electricity from coal,
he said.


Luke Popovich, spokesman for the National Mining Association,
acknowledged "a confluence of several events that appear to have
clouded coal's future."


But he said coal is still preferable to alternatives for power
generation -- more expensive natural gas, oil imports from
unstable regions and ever- controversial nuclear energy.


"There is an almost inexorable demand for electricity that no
reasonable expectation of conservation practices can diminish,"
Popovich said.


Sierra Club's Dorner admits coal will not disappear overnight but
argued against increasing its use.


"Clean coal doesn't really exist," he said, because of the impact
from both mining and combustion.


As for carbon storage, he said, "We don't have any idea whether
or when this will be possible ... it's pie in the sky."


Dorner said California has set a positive example by becoming
more energy efficient. By also using renewable sources and
"managing things better on the demand side, we won't need all
these coal plants tomorrow," he added.

