

Airports in Asia are operating at close to full capacity and
urgent investment is needed for upgrading infrastructure, an
industry consultancy said Sunday.


The problem is acute in the fast-growing markets of India, China,
Indonesia and Vietnam, which are driving the region's booming air
travel demand, the Sydney- based Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation
said in a report.


"The problems are most severe at airports serving the fast-
growing emerging markets, including China, India, Indonesia and
Vietnam," the consultancy said in the report.


"The problems are not confined to infrastructure at airports.
Urgent attention is needed to relieve air traffic congestion in
traffic hotspots, including the Pearl Delta and Yangtze River
delta regions in China," it said.


According to the consultancy's executive chairman Peter Harbison,
the region's airports run the risk of undermining competitiveness
if steps are not taken to address the issue.


"Strong predicted traffic growth will exacerbate capacity
shortages at many Asia Pacific airports in the years ahead and a
determined approach to developing fresh capacity is vital," said
Harbison.


"The capacity shortages run the risk of undermining hub
competitiveness, not to mention inconvenience to passengers," he
said, adding "some of Asia's leading airports are operating close
to or beyond design capacity, due to continued strong traffic
demand."


Figures from Airports Council International projected Asia will
likely outpace the world in terms of passenger growth with 5.8
percent annual average expansion over the next 20 years, the
Sydney-based consultancy said.


The region is also poised to overtake North America as the
world's biggest aviation market by 2025 with India and China
leading the way on the back of their huge domestic markets, it
said.


Harbison said Asia's airport congestion woes are also a burden on
airlines.


"Airport congestion is also a major factor in costly added fuel
burn for airlines at a time when environmental concerns are
beginning to match cost factors," said Harbison.


Estimates calculated by the consultancy showed 60 leading global
airport investors have a combined pool of 50 billion US dollars
ready for investment.

