

A plane carrying Australian Prime Minister John Howard was forced
to make an emergency landing in Iraq after the cabin began to
fill with smoke and fumes shortly after take-off, defence
officials said Sunday.


Howard was on a secret visit to southern Iraq when the Royal
Australian Air Force (RAAF) C-130 Hercules was forced back to
Tallil airbase late Saturday, the RAAF said.


The plane, which was carrying 30 people including the head of the
Australian defence force Air Marshal Angus Houston, was on its
way to Baghdad when the cabin filled with smoke and fumes soon
after taking off from Tallil.


The pilot turned the plane around as it reached an altitude of
about 1,500 metres (4,900 feet), forcing passengers to wear
oxygen masks as the plane dropped into a rapid descent.


Smoke was billowing from the C-130 when it touched down at Tallil
some 300 kilometres (180 miles) south of Baghdad and troops
rushed to evacuate the prime minister, reports said.


Journalists travelling with the prime minister said Howard
appeared relaxed after the incident.


"I'm fine. I was in very good hands. You can't get any better
than the RAAF," Howard said.


"It was a really good performance, and I want to thank everyone."


Houston, who was seated in the cockpit with Howard during the
14-minute ordeal, said the emergency was deemed a PAN -- possible
assistance necessary -- just below a mayday call.


"It was a precautionary landing. A PAN was declared and the pilot
requested an immediate landing," he said.


"It was the sensible thing to do in the circumstances. I can't
fault their actions. The evacuation was done very, very quickly
and efficiently."


The cause of the emergency landing would be investigated, he
added.


Howard, who last week visited Australian troops in Afghanistan,
boarded a second aircraft 20 minutes after the incident and
continued his trip to Baghdad.


After meeting with officials at the Australian embassy, Howard
was briefed by the US commander in Iraq General David Petraeus
and intelligence officials.


He also met Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, agreeing that
Australia would maintain its troop commitment in Iraq until
"terrorists are defeated".


"There has been some progress but we still wish the Australians
to remain until we have completely defeated the terrorists," al-
Maliki told a news conference after the meeting.


Howard said four years after the defeat of Saddam Hussein, there
was more work for the 1,450 Australian troops committed to the
war to do.


"I told the prime minister that Australia will continue its
presence in Iraq to assist in bringing about a situation where
the Iraqi people are reasonably able to provide for their own
future and for their own security," Howard said.


"We both agreed that the future lies in collaboration between
improved security and reconciliation in the political process."


Howard has remained staunch in his support for US-led efforts in
Iraq, despite unpopularity over the war in Iraq back home.


Howard made the unscheduled stops to Afghanistan and Iraq after
leaving Japan where he held security talks with Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe. He is expected to arrive back in Australia late
Sunday.

