

Lyon need only five more victories from their remaining nine
matches to sew up a sixth straight title after a 3-0 cruise at
Nancy on Saturday.


Goals from Czech forward Milan Baros, Swedish midfielder Kim
Kallstrom and Brazilian striker Fred wrapped up the three points.


Lyon are 16 points clear of second-placed Lens, who travel to
Auxerre on Sunday, and 15 points from the remaining 27 available
to them will secure the championship.


"We were very lucky in the first half," admitted Lyon boss
Gerrard Houllier. "In the second our players deomstrated their
talent and courage with two great goals.


"I don't think any other team has knocked us out of our stride
quite like Nancy did tonight (Saturday). Away from home you have
to be strong mentally to impose your game and the team has that."


Freefalling Nancy, who earlier in the season were challenging for
a Champions League place, have not won in eight games in all
competitions and have only one win since the turn of the year.
They now sit 14th and just seven points above the bottom three.


They hardly looked like a team short of confidence in the opening
half hour as Lyon barely saw the ball, but once Baros had given
the visitors the lead on 36 minutes, Nancy's self-belief crumbled
away.


The until-then annonymous Juninho swung over a corner and centre-
back Sebastien Squillaci's header was stopped on the line by
midfielder Jonathan Brison, only for Baros to mop up the loose
ball.


Nancy had a few chances but rarely troubled France goalkeeper
Gregory Coupet.


In the second period, Fred crossed for Karim Benzema who set up
Kallstrom to rifle the ball home under the bar.


That was 14 minutes from the end and five minutes later the
Brazilian sealed the victory with a header from the excellent
Kallstrom's free-kick.


Bordeaux moved up to third in the tightly-packed table with an
uninspiring 1-1 draw at rock-bottom Sedan.


Former Nottingham Forest forward Jean-Claude Darcheville gave the
visitors the lead on 28 minutes but just after the break Mansour
Boutabout levelled for the hosts.


Bordeaux moved above Lille who suffered a disheartening 2-0 home
loss to Le Mans as second period goals from Ismael Bangoura and
Grafite pushed Le Mans into the Champions League picture.


Lille are a point behind Bordeaux and ahead of Sochaux and
Toulouse on goal difference. Sochaux beat Toulouse 4-2 in the
day's early game.


A point further back are St Etienne, who beat Troyes 3-1, and
Marseille, who thrashed Nice 3-0. Although ninth, Le Mans are
only a single win away from Bordeaux in the final Champions
League place.


Mamadou Niang scored a brace for Marseille with Renato Civelli
adding the other strike.


"That feels good and the players deserved it," said Marseille
boss Albert Emon, who saw his team return to form last week with
a 1-1 draw against Lyon.


"The team was disciplined which allowed them to build their
game."


Nantes are still in relegation trouble after a 2-1 defeat at
Monaco, who rose to 10th in the table.


Struggling Paris St Germain, who are second from bottom, travel
to Rennes on Sunday in a must-win match for the capital giants,
who were knocked out of the UEFA Cup by Benfica in midweek.

