

Wales coach Gareth Jenkins refused to get carried away with his
team's Six Nations win over England here on Saturday, saying the
errors of a disappointing campaign had to be heeded if there were
to be more success in the lead-up to the Rugby World Cup.


The under-fire former Llanelli boss saw his side beat the
visitors 27-18, fly- half James Hook scoring a record-equalling
22 points in a superb individual performance.


"We're delighted to finish the season with a win," said Jenkins,
whose previous two wins in 14 outings were against Canada and the
Pacific Islanders. It was also the team's first success over a
top-10 ranked country under Jenkins.


"We're a work in progress. It's a new team in its first Six
Nations together," he said.


"We've learnt lessons along the way and we brought all those
lessons together today."


Wales lost all four of their games before the England encounter,
and were particularly clueless in their defeats to Scotland and
Italy.


But Jenkins said he was confident the team would continue to
improve.


"I feel this team's got great potential," he said. "We should
enjoy this moment but must be realistic. We can look forward to
(touring) Australia in May and it's nice to have a win for that
next phase.


"Rightly so we've been under pressure but that result will do
everyone some good.


Jenkins also praised Hook, a player he steadfastedly refused to
pick over out- of-form Stephen Jones, much to the dismay of the
majority of the Welsh public.


"He deserves his bottle of champagne," Jenkins said. "He made a
huge contribution into getting that result for us."


England counterpart Brian Ashton said Wales had managed the game
better but credited his players with having got back into the
match.


"In the first 20 minutes, they put us on the back foot," he said.
"We expected them to come out like that.


"We were almost blown away. But we got back into a game that was
drifting away from us, and at half-time it was game on.


"But they then managed the game better than us. For a 20-minute
spell in the second-half we were 30 metres from our line and
couldn't get away.


"We've got to be smarter and technically more accurate... But the
players can hold their heads up high."


Ashton added that it had been an "interesting Six Nations. I've
learnt a lot about personnel.


"We hoped to win all our home games and wanted to sneak an away
game."


The overall tournament performance was "satisfactory but can be
improved", he said.

