

West Ham manager Alan Curbishley conceded Bobby Zamora's winner
in his side's 2-1 defeat of Blackburn didn't cross the line - but
added that as far as he was concerned, he didn't care.


Curbishley's side grabbed the crucial three points which moved
them off the foot of the Premiership when Zamora's close range
strike appeared to have been inadvertently cleared by his team-
mate Carlos Tevez before it crossed the line.


But the goal was given and West Ham held on to win for the first
time in 11 league games.


The Hammers striker's effort completed a dramatic fightback from
West Ham who had drawn level through Tevez's penalty after Congo
defender Christopher Samba had given Blackburn an early second
half lead.


Curbishley said: "I am delighted. I don't care (that the ball was
not over), I'll take it."


He added: "I've seen the replay of it and obviously it hasn't
gone over the line. On the day you get penalties, other decisions
and some go your way.


"The linesman is a long way away and I think my players' reaction
may have affected his decision. We have had some bad luck so I'm
delighted it has turned."


To compound Blackburn's misery David Bentley was sent off in
stoppage time as West Ham, who last won in the league against
Manchester United on December 17 in Curbishley's first game in
charge, moved off the bottom of the table.


The east London club are still eight points from safety but now
have a glimmer of hope that they can stay up.


Blackburn manager Mark Hughes was in no mood to be charitable to
the match officials.


"You can talk all you like about how games pan out - but this one
has been changed by the referee's decisions.


"The assistant referee clearly wasn't up to the job - we had a
warning early on when he gave a corner which should have been a
goal kick.


"I feel he got the penalty wrong - the ball didn't even cross the
line for their goal.


"It was a comedy of errors and the sending off of David Bentley
at the end compounded a really poor day for the officials and a
poor one for Blackburn Rovers."


West Ham started brightly but Blackburn thought they had taken
the lead when Matt Derbyshire beat Robert Green but instead
referee Howard Webb penalised David Dunn for a foul on the
Hammers keeper.


West Ham wasted a glorious chance to take the lead when Tevez
sent Marlon Harewood clear midway through the half, but the
powerful striker scuffed a weak shot wide.


West Ham had lost their last six matches and there has been an
air of inevitability about their slide towards relegation.


So it was no surprise when FA Cup semi-finalists Blackburn took
the lead two minutes into the second half. Morten Gamst Pedersen
curled an inswinging corner into the six-yard box and Samba
surged past James Collins to plant a powerful header past Green
for his first Rovers goal.


But Tevez hauled West Ham back on level terms in the 71st minute.


When the Argentine's lung-bursting run took him past Brett
Emerton and into the penalty area, the Australian defender lunged
in and Webb immediately pointed to the spot. Tevez picked himself
up and sent Friedal the wrong way to give West Ham hope.


Curbishley's team poured forward in search of a winner and it
arrived in controversial circumstances after four minutes later.


Lee Bowyer's close range effort was cleared off the line by Tugay
and, when the rebound fell to Zamora, he flicked a shot goalwards
that beat Friedel but appeared to deflect back off Tevez before
it crossed the line.


Tevez was right on the line and television replays showed the
ball hit his foot before totally crossing over. But Zamora
started to celebrate and the referee's assistant awarded the
goal.


Bentley was dismissed in the last minute for two yellow cards as
West Ham escaped with a remarkable win.

