

Indonesia's new air transport chief said that airlines revealed
next week to have neglected safety standards will have three
months to comply -- or be closed down, a report said Sunday.


"In the three-month period, we will give the airlines the chance
to improve their compliance with safety regulations," Budhi
Muliawan Suyitno was quoted as saying by the Jakarta Post
newspaper.


Suyitno has said that following a review of all commercial
airlines operating in the country, the government would announce
a new national rating system for airlines and that those at the
bottom may be closed.


He said that the decision on whether to close down airlines would
be made after the three months and based on complaints from
consumers.


"We aim to secure zero-accident status within the next few years,
something that has been achieved by the aviation industries of
other countries," Suyitno said.


"They operate the same type of planes, sometimes of the same age.
If they can, why can't we?," he added.


Meanwhile, the Media Indonesia newspaper quoted an unnamed
sources with the transport ministry as saying that the government
was also planning to revoke the operation licence on 11 airlines
which have been inactive for months.


Public pressure for better safety in Indonesia's skies has
followed a string of recent air accidents, including a sea crash
that left 102 dead and two crash landings, one killing 21 people.


Indonesia's airline industry was deregulated in the 1990s,
encouraging a slew of new operators to take to the skies and
boosting huge passenger growth.


But confidence in air travel, which helps to bind the archipelago
nation of 17,000 islands, has been shaken by the series of tragic
incidents.


Indonesia has also suffered ferry disasters recently, with the
total death toll running into hundreds.


Media Indonesian quoted director general for sea transport
Harijogi as saying that the government will also conduct a review
on all roll-on, roll-off ferries aged over 25 years.


"As an effort to reduce accidents, ships of over 25 years will
have their conditions surveyed to directly see, in the field,
their physical condition," Harijogi said.


He said that Indonesia had 176 "ro-ro" ferries in operation, 53
of them aged over 25 years.


Experts blame old planes and ships, lax standards and
insufficient investment in infrastructure for Indonesia's poor
transport record.

