

Malaysia's new low-cost carrier Firefly, which will begin service
in April with two Fokker 50s, is confident it will help boost the
revenue of national carrier Malaysia Airlines, a report said
Sunday.


Eddy Leong, managing director of FlyFirefly Sdn Bhd, a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Malaysia Airlines, said Firefly would be a
profitable venture as "we work from a low-cost base."


"We are a no-frills airline, offering point-to-point travel with
fares from as low as nine ringgit (2.6 dollars).


"Firefly is about taking people off the roads, ferries and boats
and getting them to their destinations faster," he was quoted as
saying by the New Sunday Times.


Leong said the capital cost of running the airline would be kept
low and would work on a 15-minute turnaround time model.


Firefly would be the only airline connecting three popular
destinations -- Malaysia's northern Penang state, Koh Samui and
Phuket (in southern Thailand), allowing the carrier to capture
the foreign tourist market.


Leong said Firefly would offer 2,000 free seats in April to woo
travellers, and bookings would begin Monday. The new airline will
take-off from April 2 from Penang International Airport.


Officials say Firefly has the potential to tap into the huge
population of the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle --
which comprises north Sumatra, Aceh (in Indonesia), Penang,
Perak, Kedah, Perlis (in Malaysia) and southern Thailand.


Asia's low-cost sector is booming and was pioneered more than
five years ago by AirAsia, operated by Malaysia's Tony Fernandes.


Malaysia Airlines said Firefly would operate twice-daily services
out of the northern tourist island of Penang to Kota Bahru in
northern Kelantan state, to Langkawi island, as well as to
Kuantan and Kuala Terengganu.


Firefly would also have a daily service to Thailand's Phuket and
Koh Samui.


Firefly was expected to break even in its first year of operation
and start making a profit from next year.


Malaysia Airlines last month reported a 136.4 million ringgit (39
million dollar) net loss for the 2006 financial year, a better-
than-expected result after major restructuring.


Losses at the state-owned national carrier were down from the
1.14 billion ringgit reported for 2005.

