

Private equity firms, particularly those that buy up ailing
businesses, strip them down and then sell them again, have begun
fighting back against critics who denounce them as a serious and
growing threat to companies and jobs.


"Private equity barbarians are bigger and bolder, but not bad,"
was the headline in the latest issue of Global Economics Weekly,
published by investment bank Goldman Sachs.


It said that the threat of regulation seems to have been the
catalyst for a belated response from the industry to increasingly
harsh criticism from unions, governments and the media.


That criticism came to a head Friday when trade unions from
across the world met in Paris in a show of unity to call for a
clampdown on "cold-blooded" investment funds.


"Union concern has mounted at the employment impact of buy-outs
by what are often shadowy investors using borrowed money," said
the unions in a statement.


Damon Silvers, of the American Federation of Labor and Congress
of Industrial Organizations, said at the meeting that such
investors "cut jobs and stop investment in the productive
capacity of the company and that has long-term negative
consequences for the people."


Calls for tougher regulation of such funds, a trillion-dollar
industry that has grown rapidly in recent years, have mounted in
recent months.


The value of corporate acquisitions by investment funds hit a
record global total of nearly 600 billion dollars (455 billion
euros) in 2006, over half of which were chalked up in the United
States, up a hefty 70 percent from 350 billion dollars in 2005.


But Global Economics Weekly argued that "more effecient firms
ultimately create more jobs in the longer term -- even if they
are likely to cause some redunancies in the short term -- and
leveraged buyouts (LBOs) of struggling firms may prevent many
more jobs from being lost."


An LBO occurs when when a financial entity gains control of a
majority of a target company's equity by using borrowed money or
debt.


A source who declined to be named at a big buyout fund in London
said that "a fragmented structure of shareholders, some risk
averse, through the stock market, is not necessarily the best for
the reorganisation (of a company) that's needed."


The bigger private equity firms like KKR and Blackstone often
invest in companies listed on stock exchanges and take them
private.


Bernard Attali, the head of US investment fund Texas Pacific
Group's operations in France, also insists that being owned by a
private equity firm can be better for a company than being listed
on the stock market.


"It is often better for the head of a company ... who wants to
give himself the means to develop the business, to work with
professional shareholders, who are few in number and stable over
a few years, and who enable him to carry out his business plan
free from the short-termist pressure of the stock exchange," he
told Le Figaro newspaper last Wednesday.


Global Economics Weekly Several lamented that several European
countries were now considering regulation to discourage LBO
activity.


This was misguided, it said, because private equity funds often
seek to sell a company three to five years after acquiring it.


"The multi-year horizon of most investments allows managers to
focus on long- term investments, including research and
development, rather than on meeting quarterly earnings
estimates," it argued.


Nicolas Sarkozy, the rightwing candidate leading the polls for
France's April- May presidential elections, said last month that
if elected he would seek a European tax on "speculative
movements" by entities such as investment funds.


"Who can tolerate a hedge fund buying a company with debts,
firing 25 percent of staff and then reimbursing them by selling
it in pieces? Not me," he said in an interview.

