

Bulgaria's entry into the European Union lifted all previous
import taxes and opened the floodgates on a polluting stream of
second-hand cars that is stalling traffic on Sofia's pothole-
filled roads.


In the first two months of 2007, the interior ministry recorded a
record 46-percent rise in car registrations as an additional
34,677 second-hand vehicles and 8,723 new ones joined the whirr
on Bulgaria's already busy roads.


Traffic in Europe's poorest newcomer is dominated by cars that
Germans and Italians used to drive ten years ago and now sell at
increasingly cheap prices.


Meanwhile, new car sales are for the first time in years expected
to decrease, leaving dealers apprehensive.


The influx of old cars and the lack of strict technical control
are sure to spark an environmental catastrophe, Stoyan Zhelev,
the chairman of the Bulgarian Car Importers' Union, which deals
only in new cars, told AFP.


"Cars older than ten years are the worst polluters... and while
Germany and Italy are imposing ever stricter environment norms on
old cars, our country runs the risk of becoming Europe's car
dump."


"We pay with our children's health problems and frequent deaths
in car accidents," he added.


Every day, thousands of old vehicles wait for their new Bulgarian
owners in Sofia's largest open-air car market in Gorublyane. Some
of these are so ancient they have long been taken out of
circulation in their countries of origin.


The surprisingly short mileages rarely correspond to the age of
cars but dealers have a ready-made answer: "The car belonged to
an old lady."


Customers will always stand the risk of being ripped off here if
the authorities do not apply stricter regulations and control,
said Anastas Todorov, chairman of the Association of (used) Car
Importers, which includes some 70 small and medium dealers.


"Sales have already risen sharply as many people have hurried to
buy a car before the government implements its plans to introduce
higher environmental taxes for the registration of old vehicles,"
Todorov said.


"Car prices will also drop by 10 to 15 percent in the second half
of the year after we sell stocks imported back in 2005 and 2006,"
he added.


"There are 520 cars for every 1,000 residents in Sofia -- a ratio
the municipal authorities expected to reach around 2020. At the
same time, the infrastructure remains as it was back in 1977,"
said transport expert Georgy Popchev of the Sofia-based Centre
for Economic Development.


In Sofia, where all the major boulevards converge downtown and
the pothole- filled ring road is the frequent site of accidents,
traffic jams have become a part of daily life and occur at all
times of the day.


Parking spaces are so scarce that drivers line their cars along
the sides of streets or cram them right onto the sidewalks.


"The only solution is improving public transportation and city
planning," Popchev said.


Since the fall of communism in 1989, booming construction on the
outskirts of the ever-growing city has not been matched by
projects to develop transportation, he added.


Sofia municipal authorities plan to pour some 800 million euros
(1.065 billion dollars) -- mainly money from European funds --
into improving infrastructure.


There are plans to construct two-level roads, complete and extend
the single metro line, and widen the ring road.

