

Immigration reared its head as a hot-button issue in the French
presidential race this week, 18 months after rioting youth in
immigrant suburbs cast the spotlight on France's strained
integration policies.


Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy -- the right-wing frontrunner
-- says a taboo- free debate is the only way to wrench the issue
back from Jean-Marie Le Pen, the 78-year-old far-right leader and
anti-immigrant firebrand.


"A country's immigration strategy is what will define its
identity 30 years from now," Sarkozy, 52, told a rally in the
southern port of Marseille this month. "Republican parties need
to talk about these questions. If they don't, they shouldn't be
surprised that extremists seize on them."


Le Pen, who sent a thunderbolt across Europe by scraping through
to the second round of the 2002 presidential election, currently
polls fourth in the race for next month's election, with 14
percent of first round voting intentions.


The three leading candidates -- Sarkozy, the Socialist Segolene
Royal and the centrist Francois Bayrou -- have ruled out a
blanket amnesty for France's estimated 200,000 to 400,000 illegal
immigrants and pledged to boost development aid to the migrants'
countries of origin.


But Sarkozy, who as interior minister championed a tough line on
immigration, has made it a key campaign theme, advocating a
system of "chosen immigration" that would select workers to match
the needs of the economy.


While in government Sarkozy doubled the number of illegal
immigrant repatriations and scrapped the right to French
citizenship after 10 years in the country -- something Royal
promises to restore.


If elected he would make it harder for migrants' families to join
them in France, by requiring the immigrants to prove they have a
place to live and income and that their relatives can speak basic
French.


Sarkozy -- himself the son of Hungarian immigrants -- is alone in
calling for US-style affirmative action to tackle discrimination
against ethnic minorities, and in wanting foreigners to be able
to vote in local elections.


But he has also been repeatedly accused by the left of borrowing
the far-right rhetoric and his announcement last week that he
planned to create a new ministry of "immigration and national
identity" ruffled feathers even within his own camp.


According to Frederic Dabi, director of opinion at the IFOP
polling institute, Sarkozy's position reflects a hardening of
general French attitudes towards immigrants.


"If there is one theme where the political centre of gravity has
shifted to the right, it is immigration," he said. "More than
half of the public now say they don't believe that immigration is
good for the country.


"When Nicolas Sarkozy, on television, takes aim at female
circumcision, at Muslims slaughtering sheep in their apartments
-- those are things people would never have said 10 years ago."


France is home to an estimated 1.5 million immigrants from mostly
Muslim North Africa, as well as 500,000 from sub-Saharan Africa,
out of a total immigrant population of around five million,
according to the 2004 population census.


The explosion of violence in French suburbs in late 2005
highlighted France's problems in integrating earlier generations
of African immigrants who remain under-represented in politics,
the judiciary and the media, and face widespread discrimination
in the workplace.


Polls suggest the far-right received a boost from the riots, as
viewers watched television footage of disaffected black and Arab
youths torch cars and buildings and battle riot police for three
weeks.


Ratings for Le Pen -- whose National Front calls for welfare to
be reserved for French nationals and for migrants to lose the
right to bring their families to France -- jumped five percent
immediately afterwards.


But for Stephane Rozes of the CSA polling institute, ill-feeling
towards immigrants is mainly linked to the problem of
unemployment. They are seen as unwelcome competition for jobs and
welfare.


Dabi also points out that French attitudes are sharply divided:
the young are more welcoming towards immigration than their
elders, the highly-educated more than the unqualified, and the
political left more than the right.


And many people still cherish the idea of France as a land of
welcome, as shown by a high-profile campaign last summer against
the deportation of illegal immigrants whose children were
enrolled in French schools.

