

Germany faces "an uphill task" for consensus on a revised draft
of the European Union constitution by the end of its EU
presidency, Britain's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said.


German Chancellor Angela Merkel pledged on Friday to have a
roadmap to push forward a reworked constitution by June, warning
member countries that failure to adopt it by 2009 would be a
missed opportunity.


The constitution project was put on hold nearly two years ago
after French and Dutch voters rejected the draft text.


In an interview recorded for BBC television to air Sunday,
Beckett was skeptical about the chances for the German draft
constitution, even though it was slimmer than the complex
document initially rejected.


"I have to admit that I think that this is an uphill task,
certainly to do it during the German presidency," Beckett said in
remarks released before the Politics Show on BBC 1.


Beckett added that the picture would not be clear until after the
French presidential elections, "and that comes quite close to the
end of their (Germany's) presidency."


Asked if there was a consensus around the new package, she
replied: "Oh,  not remotely."


The original draft constitution, aimed at streamlining EU
decision-making, was signed by all member states but was
suspended after French and Dutch voters rejected it in national
referendums in 2005.


Beckett said there were many sticking points, not least of which
was persuading the French and the Dutch that their concerns were
being met.


"The French and the Dutch have to be able to say that this is
different because otherwise they will only get turned over again
and, you know, that is not an easy problem to resolve," she said.


She said she could envision circumstances in which a constitution
could be ratified without a referendum, but much work had to be
done to achieve a consensus and some politicians had to be more
ambitious about change.


"There's been a certain kind of mood music, shall we say, from
some quarters that, oh well, really hardly anything needs to
change," she said.


To date 18 of the 27 EU nations have formally ratified the
constitution treaty.


The German government has stressed its wish to revive the treaty
and prepare a revised text as close as possible to the original
draft prepared by an EU intergovernmental committee.

