

The German presidency of the European Union said on Saturday it
was prepared to cooperate with a legitimate Palestinian
government which would adopt a platform in line with
internationally set conditions for Middle East peace.


"The Presidency of the EU recalls the readiness of the EU to work
with and to resume its assistance to a legitimate Palestinian
government adopting a platform reflecting the (Mideast) Quartet
principles," Germany said in a statement.


"The EU will carefully assess the platform and actions of the new
government and its ministers."


It issued the statement shortly after a Palestinian coalition
government uniting the rival Hamas and Fatah factions officially
took power at simultaneous swearing-in ceremonies in Gaza City
and the West Bank city of Ramallah.


In the statement Germany, which holds the rotating EU presidency
for the first half of this year, said it "welcomes the formation
of a Palestinian government of national unity pursuant to the
agreement reached in Mecca on February 8 which lays the
foundation for Palestinian reconciliation."


The Mideast Quartet -- made up of the EU, the United States,
Russia and the United Nations -- has consistently said that any
new government must recognise Israel, renounce violence and
respect past agreements.


If those criteria were met, the Quartet has said they would agree
to lift a financial embargo imposed directly on the Hamas-led
Palestinian government after the militant group swept to power
last year.


The European Union is the main financial donor to the
Palestinians, and gave almost 700 million euros (900 million
dollars) last year, while keeping cash out of the hands of Hamas,
which figures on the terror lists of the EU and the United
States.


The new government that unites the secular Fatah party with the
Islamist Hamas movement seemed unlikely to meet international
demands, however, as prime minister Ismail Haniya defiantly
proclaimed the Palestinians' right to resist against Israel.


Though the EU ceased direct aid to the Palestinian government,
the bloc subsequently set up a temporary mechanism for funnelling
aid to the Palestinian people, who face an economic crisis, while
sidestepping the government.


The interim system allows for hospitals to be provided with
equipment and fuel and for payments to be made to the poorest
Palestinians.


In its five point statement the EU said it was "committed to
continuing its vital assistance through the Temporary
International Mechanism until the financial situation and future
needs can be assessed and a more sustainable framework for
assistance can be established."


It also called for the "release of Palestinian tax and customs
revenues withheld by Israel."


It also urged the Palestinian government to back efforts for the
release of abducted Israeli Corporal Gilad Shalit and called for
the immediate release of Palestinian ministers and legislators
detained in Israel.


And it said it was "confident that the Palestinian government
will support President (Mahmud) Abbas in the renewed political
process initiated between Israeli and Palestinian leaders."


These talks have "the aim of launching meaningful negotiations
leading to an end to the occupation that began in 1967 and to the
creation of an independent, democratic and valiable Palestinian
state, living side by side in peace and security with Israel."

