

Celebrities across Asia will bring glitz and glamour, as well as
some healthy competition, to Hong Kong Tuesday for the first ever
pan-Asian film awards ceremony.


The Asian Film Awards are launched this year by the Hong Kong
International Film Festival (HKIFF).


Among the stars to attend the glitzy event are renowned French
director Luc Besson and South Korean director Park Chan-wook,
whose film "Old Boy" was a Grand Prix winner at the 2004 Cannes
Film Festival.


Korean actor and singer Jung Ji-hoon, better known as Rain,
Japanese idol Hirosue Ryoko, and actor Tony Leung Chiu-wai will
tread the red carpet, along with local director Andrew Lau, whose
"Infernal Affairs" was remade into the Oscar-winning gangster
flick "The Departed".


"With more than four billion people in Asia -- 60 percent of the
global population -- a celebration of Asian cinema is long
overdue," HKIFF chairman Wilfred Wong said.


More than 30 films across the region will be competing for 10
prizes in the Asian Film Awards: best film, director, actress,
actor, screenwriter, cinematographer, production designer,
composer, editor and visual effects.


South Korea's huge box office hit and monster flick, "The Host",
received five nominations, including best film, actor,
cinematographer, editor and visual effects.


Veteran Chinese director Zhang Yimou's "Curse of Golden Flower"
-- the most expensive Chinese film to date with a budget of 45
million US dollars -- won three nods including best film, visual
effects and best actress for Gong Li.


Hong Kong director Johnnie To's gang war epic, "Exiled", earned
nominations for best director and best film.


Chinese movie "Still Life", winner of a top prize at the Venice
Film Festival last year, garnered three nominations: best film,
composer and director for Jia Zhangke.


Japanese smash drama, "Love and Honor" and Indonesia's "Opera
Jawa" got the best film nods.


The award show and the film festival will be held in conjunction
with the third Entertainment Expo, which combines eight events in
film, digital entertainment and music.


The Expo, which runs from March 20 through April 15, includes a
film and TV market, local film awards, a digital entertainment
forum as well as a music fair and awards.


"We certainly welcome and support events like this because they
bring the Hong Kong film industry more exposure in the region,"
said Woody Tsung, chief executive of Motion Picture Industry
Association.


"I hope this will create more business opportunities for us," he
said.


Alongside To and Jia, Iran's Jafar Panahi will be competing for
the best director gong for his black comedy "Offload" with
Korea's Hong Sang-soo ("Woman on the Beach"), Taiwan's Tsai Ming-
liang ("I Don't Want to Sleep Alone") and Thailand's Apichatpong
Weerasethakul ("Syndromes and a Century").


Apart from Gong Li, Chinese starlet Zhang Ziyi was nominated as
best actress for "The Banquet", along with Korean actresses Kim
Hye-soo ("Tazza: The High Rollers") and Lim Soo-jung ("I'm a
Cyborg, but That's OK") as well as Japan's Miyazawa Rie ("Hana")
and Nakatani Miki ("Memories of Matsuka").


Korean idol Rain will be vying for the best actor prize for his
role in romantic comedy "I'm a Cyborg, but That's OK", alongside
Hong Kong heart-throb Andy Lau of historical action drama "A
Battle of Wits" and acclaimed Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan of
"Don".


Their rivals are Taiwan's Chang Chen ("The Go Master"), South
Korea's Song Kang- ho ("The Host") and Japan's Watanabe Ken
("Memories of Tomorrow").


Special honours will be given to movie theorist David Bordwell
and Josephine Siao Fong-fong, legendary Hong Kong actress and
winner of of 1995 Berlin Film festival for her role in "Summer
Snow", for their contribution in Asian cinema.


The movies were selected by a jury of 17 experts from across the
world from more than 700 eligible films produced in the region in
2006, organisers said.

