

The US Federal Bureau of Investigation ignored warnings by
lawyers and continued using questionable procedures to obtain the
telephone records of thousands of Americans as part of its
counterterrorism probes, The Washington Post reported Sunday.


Citing unnamed senior FBI and Justice Department officials and
documents, the newspaper said FBI lawyers raised concerns about
the practice beginning in October 2004 but did not closely
scrutinize the practice until last year.


Senior FBI officials also did not understand the scope of the
problem until the Justice Department launched an investigation,
the report said.


Earlier this month, the FBI acknowledged breaching US privacy
rules to access individuals' telephone, e-mail and financial
records during terror investigations.


FBI director Robert Mueller endorsed an internal report, which he
said identified "serious deficiencies" in procedures used to
supervise requests for sensitive private information."


Mueller said that agents made mistakes in their use of "exigent
circumstance letters" and that he has banned the use of such
letters.


But counterterrorism agents last year wrote new letters to phone
companies demanding the information the bureau already possessed,
The Post said.


At least one senior FBI headquarters official -- whom the bureau
declined to name -- signed these "national security letters"
without including the required proof that the letters were linked
to FBI counterterrorism or espionage investigations, the paper
said.


The flawed procedures involved the use of emergency demands for
records, called "exigent circumstance" letters, which contained
false or undocumented claims, according to The Post.


They also included national security letters that were issued
without FBI rules being followed, the report said.


Both types of request were served on three phone companies.


A March 9 report by Justice Department Inspector General Glenn
Fine stated that the FBI's use of the exigency letters
"circumvented" the law that governs the FBI's access to personal
information about US residents.

