

US states are moving up party primary selections in a
presidential campaign that began earlier than ever, will be
costlier than ever and may jeopardize democracy, experts say.


Until now, states with later primary elections have quietly
envied the clout that voters of the earlier states have in
selecting candidates.


However, Stephen Hess, a political expert with the Brookings
Institution, said the cure may be worse than the disease: "It
creates a much more unhealthy presidential election."


The decision by as many as 28 US states to move up selection of
Democratic and Republican candidates means the public will not
yet be paying serious attention to the campaigns, when Election
Day is November 4, 2008.


Twenty-eight, more than half of the 50 US states, could move
their selection of candidates to between January 14 and February
5, or nine months before the vote.


"It's not wise," said Larry Sabato, a professor at the University
of Virginia, commenting on the decisions made Thursday by
California and the state legislature of New Jersey to advance
their primaries to February 5, 2008.


"It's a national contest that puts the emphasis on high name
recognition and raising lots of money," Sabato said.


So, front-runners, such as Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John
Edwards in the Democratic camp as well as Rudolph Giuliani, John
McCain and Mitt Romney in the Republican, have every chance to
remain at the top.


The shift was largely prompted by a law signed Thursday by
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger moving up California's primary
four months, from June, when the political game is generally
over, to early February.


The governor of New Jersey, Jon Corzine, has in front of him
similar legislation, and other states like Florida and New York
could take the same path.


That means that the Democratic and Republican presidential
candidates could in essence be selected during a larger Super
Tuesday -- when several state primaries are held on the same day
-- and then face off during the November 4 presidential election.


Schwarzenegger justified the change by the need to make sure the
voices of Californians are heard. Twenty percent of the US
population lives in that state -- as well as a large share of
deep-pocketed donors, who are aggressively courted by candidates.


But experts say California's clout could be diminished if 22
other states vote on the same day.


In addition, California risks falling victim to what experts call
a "slingshot effect." Following closely behind smaller states
like Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, which vote
in January, could influence Californians to vote for the winners.


"The momentum will carry you through February 5," Sabato pointed
out.


As a result, "it becomes increasingly difficult for a minor
candidate -- and some of them are enormously talented -- to have
any chance," explained Hess of Brookings.


He recalled that in 1976 a little-known governor from the state
of Georgia, Jimmy Carter, "would start to get a little
organization in one place, continue on to the next one ... and
people had the time to tune in."


In 2004, Democrat John Kerry began campaigning practically door
to door in Iowa in order to assure his victory in the January
primary over the then-front- runner, Howard Dean, who had amassed
a bigger war chest than his rivals.

