

The bitter lessons of Iraq are remolding the US military into
such a boots-on- the-ground counter-insurgency force that some
generals worry it may lose its edge in fighting high-tech
conventional wars.


Four years after the invasion, the US military is strained and
stretched by the bloody conflict, but it has been forced to adapt
and relearn how it fights its wars, analysts and military
officials say.


Troops are training for urban combat at mock Iraqi villages in
the Mojave Desert, and counter-insurgency is the subject of the
day at military academies and in the pages of journals.


A new generation of combat-tested military leaders is in command.


General David Petraeus, the new US commander in Iraq, spent the
past year writing the army's first counter-insurgency manual in
two decades, reviving a military art that had been all but lost
after the Vietnam War.


He is now leading a surge that is bringing some 30,000 more
troops into Iraq, and moving them out of large fortified bases
into the streets of Baghdad to put a lid on sectarian violence.


"Our force has been stretched, and it is stretched," said Colonel
Michael Negard, an army public affairs officer who returned last
month from a year in Iraq.


"But the goodness out of it is that you've got these soldiers
from junior ranks, to mid-grades, to senior ranks who are truly
seasoned at what they're doing," he said.


"We've been given the opportunity to look into the crystal ball
and see what the nature of warfare is going to be like," he said.
"I think the army is moving in that direction both in doctrine,
in training, and certainly the leadership that has been forged in
these young warriors."


Andrew Krepinevich, a retired army officer and expert on military
strategy, said the army is trying to remake itself into a
marathon runner.


The war has driven the army to revamp its structure to generate
more combat forces to keep pace with the insatiable demand for
troops.


It is shelving its Cold War-era division structure and replacing
it with smaller combat brigades that can be more rapidly deployed
and capable of sustaining themselves in the field.


"Certainly going into the war, we had an army essentially built
to be a world class sprinter to fight wars along short timelines.
We use the term surge now. We really had a surge army," he said.


The army performed brilliantly in the invasion of Iraq, capturing
Baghdad and toppling the regime of Saddam Hussein in three weeks.
But the sprinter discovered it was in a marathon, he said.


A key question now facing the army's incoming chief of staff,
General George Casey, the former commander in Iraq, is how far to
go.


"Is he going to say, 'I've seen the future, it's in Iraq. The
army has to undertake a fundamental change.' Or is he going to
say, 'this is like Vietnam, it's a one-off, it's an aberration,
and we really need to prepare for conventional threats,"
Krepinevich asked.


The chiefs of both the army and the marines have warned already
that their forces are not getting the training they need for
conventional warfare, and their readiness to meet other
contingencies has slipped.


"My concern is that as a nation we've never done very well
predicting the next fight. So in that regard we have to be
prepared for whatever comes," said General James Conway, the
commandant of the Marine Corps.


"Therefore, we have to have brigades or expeditionary forces
ready to go on very short notice anywhere in the world to conduct
forcibly entry to another land," he told defense reporters this
week.


US ground forces, however, have so little time between deployment
to Iraq that they are training almost exclusively for the
counter-insurgency missions there.


"We're not doing what we used to do annually about ten times with
our battalions, and that is combined arms live fire maneuver,
under artillery, under our aircraft bombs at 29 Palms
(California,)" Conway said, referring to the marine training base
in the Mojave Desert.


"Now we go to 29 Palms to operate in a small Iraqi village, and
to prepare people for the human dimension that they are going to
experience there. It's great training, but it's not preparing you
for those other missions we have by law assigned to us by the
nation," he said.


Plans to increase the size of the army and marines over the next
five years -- by 65,000 and 27,000 troops respectively -- may
ease the pressure.


But Conway said the problem "is going to be with us so long as we
face these rotations."

