

Bobby Zamora threw West Ham a lifeline in their fight for
Premiership survival as his controversial goal clinched a vital
2-1 win at Blackburn on Saturday.


Zamora's close range strike appeared to have been inadvertently
cleared by his team-mate Carlos Tevez before it crossed the line,
but the goal was given and West Ham held on to win for the first
time in 11 league games.


The Hammers striker's effort completed a dramatic fightback from
Alan Curbishley's side, who had drawn level through Tevez's
penalty after Congo defender Christopher Samba had given
Blackburn an early second half lead.


Blackburn's David Bentley was sent off in stoppage time as West
Ham, who last won in the league against Manchester United on
December 17 in Curbishley's first game in charge, moved off the
bottom of the table.


The east London club are still eight points from safety but now
have a glimmer of hope that they can stay up.


West Ham had started brightly and Tevez tested Brad Friedel in
the first minute with a long range drive.


West Ham defender Lucas Neill was back at Ewood Park for the
first time since his transfer window move to the London club and
the Australian was jeered through the match.


After their initial burst of pressure, West Ham were forced back
and Morten Gamst Pedersen went close with a low free-kick that
Robert Green just managed to keep out.


Blackburn thought they had taken the lead two minutes later when
Matt Derbyshire beat Green but instead referee Howard Webb
penalised David Dunn for a foul on the Hammers keeper.


West Ham wasted a glorious chance to take the lead when Tevez
sent Marlon Harewood clear midway through the half, but the
powerful striker scuffed a weak shot wide.


FA Cup semi-finalists Blackburn finished the half with a flurry
of chances. Green produced a superb stop to push away Bentley's
chip before Pedersen shot too close to the keeper.


West Ham had lost their last six matches and there has been an
air of inevitability about their slide towards relegation.


So it was no surprise when Blackburn took the lead two minutes
into the second half. Pedersen curled an inswinging corner into
the six-yard box and Samba surged past James Collins to plant a
powerful header past Green for his first Rovers goal.


But after so much has gone against them this season, Curbishley's
players deserve credit for refusing to throw the towel in after
that setback.


They responded well and Tevez hauled them back on level terms in
the 71st minute.


When the Argentine's lung-bursting run took him past Brett
Emerton and into the penalty area, the Australian defender lunged
in and Webb immediately pointed to the spot. Tevez picked himself
up and sent Friedal the wrong way to give West Ham hope.


Curbishley's team poured forward in search of a winner and it
arrived in controverisal circumstances after four minutes later.


Lee Bowyer's close range effort was cleared off the line by Tugay
and, when the rebound fell to Zamora, he flicked a shot goalwards
that beat Friedel but appeared to deflect back off Tevez before
it crossed the line.


Tevez was right on the line and television replays showed the
ball hit his foot before totally crossing over. But Zamora
started to celebrate and the referee's assistant awarded the
goal.


Bentley was dismissed in the last minute for two yellow cards as
West Ham escaped with a remarkable win.

