

The French players showed they had backbone on Saturday, manager
Jo Maso claimed after France retained the Six Nations title by
the barest of margins after beating Scotland 46-19 in their final
match.


The French took the title after Elvis Vermeulen's injury-time try
ensured they edged past Ireland - 51-24 winners over Italy
earlier - in terms of points difference.


Maso said that he had never doubted that the French would show
the character required to bounce back from a shattering 26-18
defeat to world champions England last Sunday.


"Before the match, I said to them that champions have backbone
and pride," said the former flamboyant French centre.


"I was sure that they would display those qualities on Saturday."


Maso, who was also part of the previous management team that got
France to the 1999 World Cup final where they lost to Australia,
said that France's record in the Six Nations over the past few
years was second to none.


"Since 2003 we have won three titles and 17 matches," said Maso,
who still sports the mop of curly hair that adorned his head when
he was wreaking havoc for France in the 1960's and 70's.


"This is quite a result for us.


"However I want to say that this is a title not just for the 22
players on duty on Saturday but also the other 18 (coach Bernard
Laporte selected a 40 man squad for the tournament)."


Maso added that regarding the World Cup - which France are
hosting - it was the perfect morale booster.


"I have rediscovered a team that I love, who will be even better
at the World Cup and whose sole objective is to win it."


For France coach Bernard Laporte it was a royal performance to
fit the stage of the final match of the tournament.


"We wanted to win the tournament and we did," said the 43-year-
old former scrum- half, who has been in charge since after the
1999 World Cup.


"It was a huge day for us rugby-wise.


"It is definitely our best match of the tournament and one of the
best by us for quite a while.


"Of course we talked about the points difference at half-time and
we wrote it up on the board.


"However that didn't mean we were going to go out there and throw
it around no matter what," added Laporte, who will step down
after the World Cup.


Vermeulen, who was dropped for last week's defeat by England,
said that the victory could have a positive effect on France's
World Cup hopes - as they bid to win the tournament for the first
ever time having appeared in two finals.


"I'm sure I scored the try even though several Scottish players
insisted their guy got his hand under the ball," said Vermeulen.


"Now this win will make it mentally easier to win the World Cup."


Scotland coach Frank Hadden admitted his side had been second
best.


"France played better rugby, although, I have to say I am
disappointed," said Hadden.


"Sadly in the second-half we ran out of gas and also France got
the rub of the green on several decisions."

