

Four years of devastating war in Iraq has left America's global
standing in tatters, and President George W. Bush is trying a
softer approach to his remaining arch enemies -- North Korea,
Syria and Iran.


The March 2003 invasion by a US-dominated coalition was designed
to topple Saddam Hussein and create an island of pro-American
democracy in an Arab world seen as the fount of global terrorism
that led to September 11, 2001.


But the war seems to have strengthened not only the Al-Qaeda
network behind those atrocities but also boosted the influence of
Iran and its allies -- Syria, Lebanon's Hezbollah and the
Palestinian group Hamas, all sworn enemies of the United States.


"The new Iraq was supposed to be a model for the Middle East and
a threat to Iran's theocracy. Instead, Iran has emerged as the
biggest winner of the United States' war," Vali Nasr, an analyst
at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in the latest edition
of the think tank's journal, Foreign Policy.


Multiple US tactical and strategic shifts have proven largely
ineffective in ending the carnage that has killed around 3,200
American troops and other personnel and tens of thousands of
Iraqi civilians.


At the same time, Washington's moral authority has been sapped by
revelations about secret CIA prisons in some 20 countries used to
interrogate "high value" terror suspects.


"The fact is (Bush) squandered our credibility, our legitimacy
and even respect for our power, and that is a rather serious
indictment," said Zbigniew Brzezinski, national security adviser
under former president Jimmy Carter.


Bush's handling of the war also cost his Republican Party its
control over Congress and sent his own popularity ratings
plunging to the point where barely one in three Americans feel he
is doing a good job.


The setbacks were accompanied by widening criticism of Bush's
unilateralist foreign policy, a message that seems to be getting
through.


In the wake of November's congressional election shock, Bush
sacked his hardline defense secretary and Iraq war architect,
Donald Rumsfeld, and authorized Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice to try some diplomatic repairs.


These involved a new US initiative to revive neglected Israeli-
Palestinian peace efforts.


It also included tentative steps towards engagement with North
Korea, Iran and Syria -- taboo diplomacy when Rumsfeld and Vice
President Dick Cheney held unchallenged sway over US policy.


Just last month, North Korea agreed to shut down key nuclear
facilities in exchange for badly needed fuel, part of a broad
international agreement aimed at ending the regime's
controversial nuclear program.


The deal included a US commitment to hold direct talks on
diplomatic relations with North Korea and to study removing it
from its list of terrorist nations.


Meanwhile, on the sidelines of a March 10 conference on peace in
Iraq, the US ambassador to Baghdad held what he described as
"constructive and businesslike" talks with Iranian officials.


And a senior State Department official traveled to Damascus this
past week for the highest-level visit in two years as Washington
pressed the limited opening to Syria begun at the Iraq
conference.


Iran is not the only country to have profited from Washington's
woes in Iraq, foreign policy experts say.


As Washington focussed above all on the war, China has spent the
past four years spreading its influence and economic reach,
including across Africa and into Latin America.


At the same time, Arab allies, notably Egypt and Saudi Arabia,
gained a respite from early Bush administration efforts to press
them on human rights issues -- now deemed less important than
gaining their support against Iran.


Ariel Cohen, an analyst at the conservative Heritage Foundation,
says Russia has also benefitted from the Iraq war to make a
comeback in the Middle East, where it has gained leverage due to
its close ties to Tehran and been able to build new bridges with
wealthy Gulf monarchies.


"Clearly, the new Middle East -- in which US power and prestige
are threatened in Iraq and where Moscow is challenging America's
superpower status -- will be a more competitive and challenging
environment," Cohen said.

