

Sir Alex Ferguson has hailed Cristiano Ronaldo as the lynchpin of
Manchester United's drive towards the Premiership title and
voiced confidence that the winger will be at Old Trafford for
years to come.


Ronaldo, a top priority target for Real Madrid and Barcelona,
demonstrated why he is so in demand and has been tipped for
player of the year awards by creating United's first three goals
in a 4-1 demolition of Bolton at Old Trafford.


And afterwards, Ferguson said he was confident that the club
could persuade the Portuguese winger to sign a contract that will
keep him at Old Trafford until 2012, two years longer than under
his existing deal.


"I'm confident he will be a United player," Ferguson said after
watching Park Ji-Sung and Wayne Rooney grab two goals each on
Saturday.


"I just hope his agent allows us to enter into negotiations. To
score four goals at home at this stage of the season is
tremendous. It emphasises the confidence running through the
team.


"Ronaldo has been incredible for us all season, he's done these
sort of things in every game. The second goal in particular --
the combination between Ronaldo and Rooney and Cristiano's
weighted pass for Wayne to score -- was tremendous."


Ferguson's joy over the form of Rooney and Ronaldo was tempered
by the loss of club captain Gary Neville for at least three weeks
with ankle ligament damage he suffered following a challenge with
Bolton's Gary Speed, who notched a consolation goal for his side
with a late penalty.


Neville's injury is however an even more serious blow for England
as Steve McClaren's side prepare for crucial European
Championship qualifiers away to Israel and Andorra on March 24
and 28.


Ferguson will be more concerned with Neville regaining his
fitness in time to contribute towards United's title run in and
the full extent of the injury will not be clear until the
defender has had further tests later this week.


Surgery could be required and Ferguson explained: "Gary has
strained his ankle ligaments and we are looking at around three
weeks.


"It's obviously a blow for us. When Gary went down with his
injury there was a lull in the crowd, but the players got on with
the job and I'm delighted."


Wes Brown will fill-in for Neville in Monday's FA Cup quarter-
final replay against Middlesbrough -- a change Ferguson said he
had intended to make even before his captain got injured.


Bolton manager Sam Allardyce meanwhile reckons his side's fading
hopes of European qualification are being undermined by a chronic
lack of confidence.


He said: "Manchester United didn't even have to use their
superior skill to beat us and that is the most disappointing
aspect from my point of view.


"We look like we are fearful. We are playing with fear and a lack
of confidence and this is something we need to address.


"It was a long afternoon. I just couldn't understand the team and
how they gifted united three goals from our own dead ball
situations.


"We worked on these basics all week and these things have to be
right when you play United but we just haven't got them right.
It's embarrassing from our point of view."

