

Rangers manager Walter Smith was forced to admit he could be
forced into giving Kris Boyd more scoring opportunities after the
striker hit a hat-trick in a 3-0 win against Aberdeen.


Boyd's hat-trick took his tally to 25 goals for the season - and
100 SPL goals in total for Kilmarnock and Rangers - but despite
his prolific goalscoring he has still been criticised for his
poor workrate.


The 23-year-old had been dropped in favour of Slovakian striker
Filip Sebo for both legs of the UEFA Cup defeat against Spanish
side Osasuna and for the Old Firm victory over Celtic.


Smith restored Boyd to his starting line-up for Saturday's
Scottish Premier League match against the Dons, and he repaid his
boss with a treble within 31 minutes.


The victory meant Rangers are now seven points ahead of third-
placed Aberdeen and odds on favourites to finish second to
runaway leaders Celtic and clinch a place in next season's
Champions League.


Smith said: "Kris made an excellent contribution against Aberdeen
and I'm delighted for him. If we can supply him with the
opportunities to score then he has shown that he is as good as
anyone at taking them.


"His three goals today were all varied, using his left foot, his
right and his head and that's what he can do."


Smith acknowledged however the SPL's top scorer can still work on
certain aspects of his play.


"There are obviously still bits of his game that he needs to
improve on but we also need to play to his strengths. He is a
natural goalscorer and we have to use that to the full.


"I've been unfair to him recently asking him to play up front on
his own as he's not best suited to doing that but I've had to ask
him to do it anyway.


"Against Aberdeen we've been able to get Dado Prso up alongside
him and that helped.


"He's shown that in the penalty area there are few others better
than him in terms of finishing. He got his three goals on
Saturday and hopefully he can continue that."


Boyd himself was delighted with his three goals, although he
accepted he would never please everyone.


And while Smith believes his game is not suited to playing as a
lone striker, he welcomes the role - but admitted he had
benefited from playing alongside Prso on Saturday.


"Even after scoring three goals I'll still get criticised by some
but as long as I keep scoring and shutting these people up I'll
be happy," said Boyd.


"I've played up front on my own before and I'll do it again but
it always helps when you're playing alongside someone like Dado.


"He is a special talent and it's great to play with him."


Boyd had handed Rangers the lead in only the eighth minute when
he got on the end of Alan Hutton's cross to send a downward
header into the bottom corner of the net.


In the 25th minute Charlie Adam's attempted cross from the left
deflected off the leg of Aberdeen midfielder Scott Severin and
Boyd was first to react to prod the ball past goalkeeper Jamie
Langfield from six yards.


Six minutes later Boyd collected Hutton's cutback to rifle past
Langfield from eight yards.

