

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will meet the so-called
Arab Quartet in Egypt in a week's time, Foreign Minister Ahmed
Abul Gheit told journalists on Saturday.


"The meeting between Mrs Rice and the foreign ministers of the
member countries of the Arab Quartet will take place on March 24
at Aswan" in Upper Egypt, he said.


On Tuesday he had indicated the meeting would be on March 25.


The Arab Quartet groups Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates. Abul Gheit said he had contacted his
counterparts in the three other countries in advance of the
meeting.


While in Egypt Rice will also meet President Hosni Mubarak. She
will also go to Israel and the Palestinian territories for talks
with both parties in an attempt to relaunch the Israeli-
Palestinian peace process.


Nearly four years ago, the international Quartet -- the European
Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United States --
produced a peace roadmap that envisioned an independent
Palestinian state living side by side in peace with Israel, but
the plan has made virtually no progress.


Last year, the international Quartet imposed a diplomatic and
financial boycott on the Palestinian government after the
Islamist movement Hamas took power following democratic
elections.


Ahead of Saturday's formation of a new Palestinian unity
government it demanded that the incoming cabinet renounce
violence, recognise Israel and agree to abide by past interim
peace agreements.


Palestinian prime minister Ismail Haniya of the Islamist movement
on Saturday defiantly proclaimed the Palestinians' right to
resist against Israel.


"Resistance in all its forms to the occupation is a legitimate
right," he Haniya told lawmakers ahead of the vote that approved
the new administration.


But he vowed to respect past peace accords signed with the
Palestine Liberation Organisation, and assured Israel he would
work to secure the release of captured Israeli soldier Gilad
Shalit.


Israel seized on Haniya's call for resistance to denounce the new
government.


"Israel will not recognise or work with this new government or
with its members," government spokeswoman Miri Eisin told AFP.

