

Daniela Hantuchova captured her second career singles title and
second in Indian Wells by upsetting Svetlana Kuznetsova 6-3, 6-4
at the Pacific Life Open Saturday.


This marked the first final of the year for the 23-year-old
Hantuchova who made a name for herself in 2002 at Indian Wells.


Both WTA singles titles for Hantuchova have come at the tier one
event at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden stadium.


"This is even sweeter," Hantuchova said. "Just the feeling of
being able to win the same tournament.


"I know people have been saying that I haven't won a tournament
since 2002, but if I had a choice I would much rather pick this
one to win than some little tournament."


In the men's side of the draw, two-time French Open champion
Rafael Nadal put on an impressive display of serving and shot
making to defeat Andy Roddick 6-4, 6-3 and reach the final where
he will square off against Novak Djokovic.


Hantuchova posted her breakthrough win as a elfish 18-year-old
here five years ago by beating another second seed Martina Hingis
by the same score.


The Hingis victory raised expectations, but Hantuchova has
struggled in finals since, losing four straight.


She is the forgotten former champion in Indian Wells and wasn't
even featured in the tournament programme this year.


"I had exactly the same feeling like I had against Martina in
2002," Hantuchova said. "Not for one second did I not believe in
myself.


"I was just so confident from the first point and I didn't really
think about the score."


She joins an all-star cast who have won this tournament twice,
comprising Mary Joe Fernandez (93, 95), Martina Navratilova (90,
91), Steffi Graf (94, 96), Lindsay Davenport (97, 00), Serena
Williams (99, 01) and Kim Clijsters (03, 05).


Hantuchova got off to quick start breaking Kuznetsova in the
second game and winning the first two games of the opening set.


Hantuchova was broken in the next game but she managed to break
back immediately to take a 3-1 lead. Hantuchova broke the 21
-year-old Russian again in the fifth game of the second, setting
the stage for her dramatic finish.


She clinched the championship on the first of two match points
when Kuznetsova drove a forehand long. Hantuchova leaped for joy,
avenging a straight set loss to Kuznetsova in the Doha tournament
which served as a tune-up for Indian Wells.


"I was too far behind to win this match," Kuznetsova said. "She
was playing very good, all the credit to her and I have to work
on some things in the future."


This year's tournament had a diminished field from the outset. On
Wednesday, top seed and defending champion Maria Sharapova and
third seed and former champion Martina Hingis were eliminated.


The draw was already missing big names Serena Williams, Amelie
Mauresmo and Justine Henin, who decided to skip this event.


Nadal advances to Sunday's final where he will play Serbia's
Djokovic who defeated an ailing Andy Murray 6-2, 6-3 in the other
semi-final Saturday.


Nadal, of Spain, has not won an ATP title since Roland Garros,
going winless in 12 consecutive tournaments.


"This has been my best week of tennis in six months," Nadal said.
"I am in the final and it has been a long time."


Nadal broke Roddick's serve three times in the match. Heading
into the semis, Roddick had gone 45 service games without facing
a break point on his serve.


Britain's No 1 Murray said he regretted starting his semi-final
match after injuring his left ankle the day before in his three-
set thriller with Tommy Haas.


"A bit of unprofessional decision on my part to have gone on,"
Murray said. "I wanted to go out and try to play and maybe see if
I could move okay.


"I didn't know until I got on the court how bad it was going to
be. I did it and it was maybe the wrong decision."


The 19-year-old Scot heads to Miami for next week's tournament
with a 19-4 record this year.


Murray's match on Friday night was delayed 10 minutes after he
tumbled hard, twisting his ankle and landing on his hip and knee.


After having his ankle taped, he resumed and than saved two match
points in beating Haas 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (10/8) in a tiebreaker.


Asked for his prediction on Sunday's final between Nadal and
Djokovic, Murray said Nadal would be hard to beat.


"It depends on how Nadal plays," Murray said. "If he plays his
best then nine times out of ten he is going to win. He is a great
player and has won two Slams and made the final of Wimbledon, so
if he plays his best he will win."

