

Sudan's archaeology is finally stepping out of Egypt's shadow as
teams work against the clock to rescue an entire swathe of Nile
Valley heritage from the rising waters of a Chinese-built dam.


"The paradox is that, yes, an entire area is being wiped off the
map but thanks to the rescue project, Sudanese archaeology is
being put on the map," said Sudan's antiquities chief Salah
Ahmed.


The Merowe dam is a controversial hydro-electric project -- one
of the largest in Africa -- being erected on the Nile's fourth
cataract and due to start flooding the valley over more than 100
miles (160 kilometres) within months.


Archaeologists admit that an incalculable amount of information
will be forever lost.


But the largest archaeological rescue project since the Nubian
campaign launched in the 1960s during the construction of the
Aswan dam in southern Egypt has unearthed heritage that would
likely have remained untapped.


"This area was completely unknown to archaeologists, it was a
missing chapter in Sudan's history and nobody was planning to go
there because it's very hard from a logistical point of view,"
Ahmed told AFP.


Sudan's pre-Christian civilisations built more pyramids than the
Egyptians but have received little attention since being defeated
by Egyptian warrior Pharaoh Tuthmosis I (15 century BC).


"Of course, there is no Abu Simbel here," said Ahmed, in
reference to the massive temples originally carved out of the
mountain under the reign of Ramses II and relocated as part of a
monumental transfer when the Aswan dam was built.


But teams of archaeologists from Britain, France, Germany, Poland
and a dozen other countries have been relentlessly searching the
fertile Nile river banks near Merowe for at least five years now
and made some significant discoveries.


Some of the artefacts found in the soon to be flooded area
enabled archaeologists to redefine the borders of ancient
kingdoms, such as Kerma which ruled part of Nubia between 2,500
and 1,500 BC.


"We found very rich Kerma occupation farther upstream, extending
the frontiers of this important kingdom by more than 200
kilometres (120 miles)," Ahmed said.


"We also found for the first time in the fourth cataract area the
foundations of a pyramid, with Meroitic ceramics. This gives
political importance to the area because it shows someone
important was buried there."


Funerary archaeology in the area also benefits from exceptional
chronological continuity, offering experts a rare chance to
retrace historical developments.


"The fourth cataract is very interesting for the study of
transitional periods, which are often shrouded in mystery and
uncertainty," said Vincent Francigny, a resident archaeologist at
France's Khartoum-based SFDAS institute.


Only a tiny fraction of the vast area has been excavated and
archaeologists, currently wrapping up their season, will have
little time left to make more discoveries before the waters start
rising.


In addition to scorching heat and accessibility problems, there
is simmering tension between the government and local communities
being evicted by the dam's growing reservoir.


The Manasir tribe, whose entire heartland will be submerged, has
recently expelled foreign archaeologists, whom they accuse of
helping the Khartoum regime put an acceptable face on the dam
project.


Ahmed explained that a system had been agreed upon whereby a part
of the artefacts recovered from the Merowe area will be handed to
the teams that found them.


"Small samples can leave abroad, especially when an item exists
in several copies," Ahmed said, a soft-spoken French-educated
archaeologist less accustomed to the limelight than his
flamboyant Egyptian counterpart Zahi Hawass.


While Egypt has aggressively promoted the recovery of artefacts
housed by museums abroad and continues to play host to bitter
rivalries between foreign concessions, Sudanese archaeology is
enjoying a golden age of cooperation.


"All the teams work together. Archaeology is not a competition
here but more like a family, which got even tighter with the
fourth cataract," Francigny said.


The dam's completion will mark the end of an unprecedented period
of intensive archaeology in Sudan but the lake will also swallow
up countless artefacts and major Christian-era fortresses.


By the time the final exhibition retracing years of Merowe
archaeological excavations takes place in the Chinese-built hall
by the dam in November 2008, "the beauty of the fourth cataract
will also be lost forever," Ahmed said.


One more thing will haunt some archaeologists however when the
water covers the area: the thought that sitting under the dam's
millions of tons of water and concrete may be a Sudanese Rosetta
stone.


However unlikely, a discovery similar to that made by the French
in northern Egypt in 1799 would help unlock the mystery of
Meroitic, one of the world's few undeciphered scripts, which
appeared in the area around 25 centuries ago.


Ahmed explained that fourth cataract finds have so far made no
significant contribution to understanding the Meroitic language.
"Unless, of course, there is a Rosetta stone. But if I found it,
I wouldn't tell anyone."


The stone, a basalt tablet bearing inscriptions, provided the key
to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphics.

