

Inhabitants of a small Czech village voted overwhelmingly on
Saturday against US plans to construct part of its anti-missile
defence system on a nearby army base.


Seventy-two out of 90 residents eligible to vote did so, and 71
voted against the plans and one for, Trokavec's mayor Jan Neoral
told AFP.


The vote will only have a symbolic value, as the government has
resolutely refused to hold a national referendum and instead has
chosen to seek parliamentary approval of Washington's request.


But neighbouring villages in the forested, hilly countryside
around 60 kilometres (40 miles) from Prague, also intend to hold
their own referendums over the next weeks, Neoral told AFP.


"This is our message to the government and the government should
take notice of the fact that our village wishes (the radar
installation) not to happen," Neoral said.


The siting of the radar at the base, two kilometres (1.2 miles)
from the village, is part of requests made by the US to the
government of Prime Minister Mirek Topanek, who is in favour of
the plans.


"We have nothing against the Americans," said Trokavec resident
Ladislav Straka. "If it were the Russians or the Japanese, it
would be the same. We don't want it."


Milena Huskova, a 52-year-old labrador breeder, was also against
the plan.


"The radar can have a negative impact on us, on the animals and
on nature, so we don't want it," Huskova said.


According to a survey by the CVVM institute in March, around six
out of 10 Czechs are opposed to hosting the X-band radar, which
would detect a missile attack. Ten interceptor missiles based in
Poland would shoot it out of the sky.


On the political level, the country's strong Communist Party has
led attacks on the proposed radar. The main opposition party, the
Social Democrats, is demanding a referendum, and the Green Party,
which forms part of the centre- right governing coalition, wants
the base integrated in EU and NATO defence plans.


The proposed rollout of the US missile shield in Central Europe
has split European countries. But a hostile Germany has failed to
open a debate about it within NATO, which considers the decision
a purely bilateral issue between the US and its staunch allies,
the Czech Republic and Poland.


Moscow has protested against the construction of a defence system
installed on its doorstep.


The US has offered assurances that the Czech and Polish bases are
aimed at completing coverage from installations already in place
in the United States, Britain and Greenland and that they are
only aimed at preventing long range missile attacks from the
Middle East.

