

Derby manager Billy Davies believes Steve Howard is getting his
just rewards after the striker's brace boosted his side's
promotion push.


Howard was criticised by Derby fans as he initially struggled
following his pre- season move from Luton, but he has responded
with 16 goals that have helped the Rams to the top of the
Championship.


The burly forward opened the scoring in Derby's 3-1 win over
Cardiff at Pride Park on Saturday with a 28th minute penalty.
Then he added Derby's third in the second half to give Davies's
side the advantage in the race for promotion.


Cardiff midfielder Paul Parry had drawn the Welsh play-off
chasers level four minutes after Howard's spot-kick. But a
stunning individual effort from Giles Barnes in the 49th minute
restored Derby's lead before Howard ensured a first win in three
matches.


Davies said: "He was tremendous, he's been a great leader. He
came in here at the beginning and took a bit of stick in the
first seven or eight games, but he's now proving his worth.


"He's a tremendous guy to have in the dressing room, he's got
great experience and his goalscoring record speaks for itself
over the last two or three years."


Sunderland manager Roy Keane is refusing to contemplate promotion
despite his side's seventh win in nine matches.


Keane's men moved a step closer to automatic promotion after a
2-0 win against Hull thanks to goals from Jonny Evans and Stern
John at the Stadium of Light.


Evans, on loan from Manchester United, gave Sunderland the
perfect start when he headed home Dean Whitehead's free-kick in
the third minute.


Sunderland dominated throughout and John sealed the points when
he punished poor defending with a 90th minute strike.


But Keane said: "I've not even seen the table. I keep telling you
that it doesn't matter where we are now, it's at the end of the
season when it counts.


"If we finish second in the table at the end of the season then
we'll be delighted."


Preston consolidated their play-off spot with a 2-0 win over
local rivals Burnley at Deepdale.


David Nugent has been linked with a call-up to the England squad
and he underlined his growing reputation with the 33rd minute
opener.


Matt Hill's long throw was chested down by Brett Ormerod and
Nugent turned to finish well.


Patrick Agyemang came off the bench to claim the second goal
after 75 minutes when he took Nugent's pass and drove home to
leave Burnley without a win in 18 matches.


Andy Keogh rescued Wolverhampton with a late equaliser that
salvaged a 2-2 draw at 10-man Sheffield Wednesday.


Mick McCarthy's fifth-placed side twice fell behind to goals from
Deon Burton and Steven MacLean. Michael McIndoe got the first
leveller for Wolves before Frank Simek was sent off for Wednesday
and Keogh snatched a draw in the 90th minute.


QPR climbed out of the relegation zone as Marc Nygaard's brace
set up a 3-1 win at Leicester.


Inigo Idiakez gave QPR the lead before Danish striker Nygaard
struck twice. Iain Hume's last minute penalty was no consolation
for Leicester.


That result meant rock bottom Leeds are now five points from
safety despite a dramatic 1-1 draw at relegation rivals Southend.


Dennis Wise's side looked destined for a devastating defeat when
Mark Gower gave the hosts a first half lead, but David Healy
grabbed an 89th minute equaliser.


Wise believes Leeds can still stay up and he said: "We've still
got seven games to go and we've played well over the last eight.


"We've got to build on what we got today. If we can keep
performing like that we've got a chance."

