

At least three Muslim students including a 12-year-old boy have
been killed after suspected separatist rebels launched an attack
on a school in Thailand's restive south, police said Sunday.


Local police chief Thammasak Wasasiri said an explosion hit the
Islamic school in Songkhla province on Saturday night, before
militants opened fire in the building.


"A 12-year-old boy and a 14-year-old girl died at a scene while a
17-year-old male teenager died at hospital," Thammasak told AFP.
"Another seven students were injured."


Police were still determining whether the victims were killed by
the blast or gunfire, he said.


The attack occurred in Songkhla's Saba Yoi district, which
neighbours Yaha district in Yala province, where the massacre of
nine Buddhists Wednesday prompted the army to impose a partial
curfew in the Muslim-majority south.


At least 2,000 people have been killed in separatist violence
that has gripped the provinces of Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani
since January 2004, with the bloodshed occasionally seeping into
neighbouring Songkhla.


Teachers and schools are often targeted by insurgents, who see
them as trying to impose Buddhist Thai values on the Muslim-
majority region. However, the school targeted Saturday was an
Islamic religious school.


Thammasak said a group of local villagers blocked the road to the
scene of the attack because they believed government armed forces
were behind the raid, but he said that Islamic rebels were
responsible.


"This violence was carried out by a group who wants to create
problems, the same group who carried out acts of violence in the
other three provinces," Thammasak said.


Violence has recently escalated in the region bordering Malaysia
despite a raft of peace-building measures proposed by Thailand's
military-backed government.


A string of coordinated bomb blasts across the southernmost
region last month killed nine and injured 44, while the
execution-style killing of nine Buddhists as they travelled to
work last week shocked the kingdom.

