

Valencia squandered their chance to close the gap on the leading
pair in the Spanish first division when they went down 2-0 at
home to Racing Santander on Saturday.


Goals from Pedro Munitis and Oriol Lozano clinched three points
for Racing who maintain their slim chances of qualifying for
European competition for the first time.


Former Spanish international striker Munitis put Racing ahead on
20 minutes, finding the net from the edge of the six yard box
following a long, looping pass by Nicola Zigic out on the right
wing.


Valencia didn't lack the opportunities to equalise in the final
10 minutes of the first half but Racing rode their luck.


David Silva had two close attempts on goal, with one of his shots
skimming by the post, while David Villa and Miguel Angel Angulo
could also have scored but were thwarted by Racing keeper Tono
Rodriguez.


Racing virtually clinched all three points when they went 2-0
ahead from a header by Oriol after 63 minutes, the defender
connecting with a Munitis corner.


Villa and Asier Del Horno had good efforts late in the game but
Valencia still could not find the net, failing to score at home
in La Liga for only the second time this season.


Valencia defender David Navarro, who on Wednesday was banned by
UEFA from the Champions League for seven months because of his
part in the mass brawl at the end of the match against Inter
Milan last week, started in place of the injured Roberto Ayala.


UEFA are asking the world governing body FIFA to ban Navarro from
all games but at the moment he is still eligible to play in
domestic matches.


The 2002 and 2004 Spanish champions stay in third place, three
points adrift of league leaders Barcelona and second-placed
Sevilla, but both teams have a game in hand.


Reigning Spanish champions Barcelona are ahead of Sevilla on goal
difference and aim to consolidate pole position at Recreativo
Huelva later on Saturday.


Barca coach Frank Rijkaard has defender Oleguer Presas suspended
but welcomes back defender Gianluca Zambrotta and winger Ludovic
Giuly after both men missed the thrilling 3-3 draw against Real
Madrid last Saturday with one- match bans.


Sevilla will be hoping that their near-neighbours Recreativo can
perform a big favour and open the door for them to return to the
top again if they get a good result against struggling Celta Vigo
on Sunday.


However, Sevilla coach Juande Ramos was grumbling this week that
their grueling schedule in La Liga, with them also still in the
Spanish Cup and the UEFA Cup, was catching up with them.


"We need to recover a bit of our freshness, including Fredi
Kanoute. When Kanoute struggles, we lose some of our danger in
front of goal," admitted Ramos, referring to the Spanish first
division's leading scorer with 18 goals.


Real Madrid are fourth, two points behind Valencia, and a win
against relegation-threatened Gimnastic Tarragona on Sunday would
see them move up a place.


"If we win and play well that would be perfect but the most
important thing is that we win becuase we have given away too
many points at home. The numbers say that clearly," said Real
coach Fabio Capello on Saturday.


Real have drawn four and lost three of their 12 league games at
home this season.

