

Thailand's military deposed twice-elected prime minister Thaksin
Shinawatra in a bloodless coup six months ago.


Here is a snapshot of the winners and losers in the September 19
takeover.


WINNERS:


- The generals: Thailand's military seized power without firing a
shot and initially received an outpouring of public support.


The junta led by General Sonthi Boonyaratglin is now the final
authority in government, with the power to sack the prime
minister at will.


Other generals on the junta have snapped up profitable spots on
corporate boards of the biggest state enterprises, including flag
carrier Thai Airways.


Thailand's military spending has gone up 34 percent, with little
oversight on how the cash is being used. The junta has also
formed its own 14,000-strong security force outside that budget,
at a cost of 15 million dollars.


Amid mounting discontent with the new government, the public's
opinion of the military may ultimately hang on whether it hands
over power as planned in elections late this year.


- The old elite: After a decade under a progressive constitution
that gave greater influence to political parties, the coup
reasserted the importance of Thailand's aristocratic elite.


Sonthi has repeatedly said a key reason for the coup was that
Thaksin had been "impolite" to the royal family.


Former prime minister Prem Tinsulanonda, top adviser to
Thailand's revered king, was widely seen as the mastermind who
orchestrated the coup from behind the scenes.


The military-installed prime minister, former army chief Surayud
Chulanont, sat under Prem on the king's Privy Council,
underlining the palace's political influence of the palace.


LOSERS:


- Thaksin: His star had once seemed never to set. His telecom
empire made him a billionaire and he was the only prime minister
ever to win re-election.


Now he is living in exile and facing corruption charges in
Bangkok.


The name of his Thai Rak Thai political party translates as
"Thais Love Thais," but even his most trusted allies did not
stick around long. The party is a shadow of its former glory
after mass defections at the highest levels.


Still, when Thaksin's family sold his telecom firm Shin Corp --
the scandal that precipitated the coup -- they earned nearly two
billion dollars tax free, on top of their existing fortunes.


As the military government has stumbled, opinion polls show that
Thaksin's popularity is slowly on the rise.


- Southern Muslims: The military takeover seemed to present an
opportunity to end a three-year insurgency in Thailand's Muslim-
majority south.


But peace efforts have so far had no response from the militants,
who have instead escalated their attacks along the Malaysian
border. February was the bloodiest month yet, with at least 210
attacks that left 54 dead and a further 189 injured.


The insurgents are increasingly targetting Buddhists in what the
army says is a bid to drive them out of the region, although
Muslims are also victims in many attacks.


- The economy: Worried by the coup and a series of botched policy
missteps, investors are remaining on the sidelines while the
stock market has taken a beating.


The government expects the national economy to grow by as little
as four percent this year, although private estimates are even
lower.


Consumer confidence is at a five-year low, while exports -- the
main driver of Thailand's economy -- are expected to grow just
eight percent this year.


Many investors say they are waiting to see how the promised
elections go before making any new commitments in Thailand.

