

Millions of Indians woke up Sunday numbed by their cricket team's
shock defeat against Bangladesh that threatens to end their World
Cup campaign.


Bangladesh's five-wicket win in Port of Spain on Saturday after
bowling India out for a paltry 191 left Rahul Dravid's men red-
faced and an entire nation seething in anger.


India must now defeat first-timers Bermuda by a big margin on
Monday and wallop powerful Sri Lanka convincingly next Friday to
remain in contention for the second round.


"Let's not fool ourselves, India's World Cup is over," said
Delhi-based student Venayak Gupta, who stayed up all night to
watch the horror show on television.


"Frankly, our overpaid, over-hyped and over-pampered cricketers
do not deserve to stay in the tournament."


Cricket legends Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev chose to shower
praise on Bangladesh, saying even an experienced team like India
can learn from them how to win.


"Let's give credit where it is due -- I think Bangladesh were
brilliant out there," Gavaskar said during a review programme on
ESPN channel.


"The spinners were outstanding and the way the batsmen responded
... I will not take anything away from them."


Kapil, who captained India's lone World Cup triumph in 1983, said
he was "speechless, too ashamed to talk."


"Bangladesh should be complimented for the way they played. India
can learn from them how to win," Kapil told AFP.


"Bangladesh played like a team, we did not. It's sad but true."


Kapil was not convinced than an experienced team like India could
crawl out of the deep hole it had dug for itself in the
tournament.


"I think we should stop talking about teams being better on
paper," he said. "Matches are not won on paper.


"What is the use of all this experience if you can't take
advantage of it. The seniors have to take some responsibility and
I don't think they did that against Bangladesh."


Kapil said India's shock defeat and Ireland's equally stunning
win over Pakistan -- which knocked Inzamam-ul-Haq's men out of
the World Cup -- proved minnows had a place in the showpiece
event.


"Hope no one says now that minnows should not be playing in the
World Cup," he said. "No team can be taken lightly in one-day
cricket."


Gavaskar reminded Dravid's men that they must go "hammer and
tongs" against Bermuda and Sri Lanka in order to qualify for the
second round.


"India are down, but they are not out," he said.


Media firms, which had pumped in large sums to build hype around
the World Cup to generate advertisement revenue, will be hoping
Gavaskar's optimism is proved correct.


Newspapers on Sunday hinted the writing was on the wall even
though the time difference with the Caribbean prevented them from
reporting the entire match.


The Times of India's front-page displayed two photographs of
Indian batsman Virender Sehwag and Pakistan captain Inzamam under
the caption: "Mighty minnows put Asian powers on the mat."


"Campaign starts with collapse," screamed the headline in the
Hindustan Times. "The World Cup finally began for India, but it
might not last too long," wrote the newspaper's correspondent.


The Indian Express said: "Bangladesh grabbed India by the collar,
poked a finger in the eyes of some of the world's best batsmen,
tore up the elaborate blueprint prepared by coach Greg Chappell
and punched an embarrassing dent on the face of the world's
richest cricketing outfit."

