

More and more Russians visit Austria every year to the delight of
luxury shops and tourism representatives, but prime property
features increasingly on their shopping lists, alongside shoes
and handbags.


The number of Russian tourists "has grown very strongly,
especially in the last six years... thank God!" Ursula Schorer,
manager of the four-star Erika Hotel in the ritzy Tyrolean resort
of Kitzbuehel, said with a laugh.


Last year alone, the number of Russians visiting Austria went up
21.6 percent from 2005, according to the statistical institute
Statistik Austria.


In Vienna -- their main destination -- the figure has almost
doubled in the past five years, said local tourism board director
Karl Seitlinger.


"This is something to be happy about."


Indeed, while German and Dutch tourists are the most frequent
visitors to the land of Mozart and Sachertorte, the city's iconic
chocolate cake, Russians make up in spending what they lack in
numbers.


"It's well-known that the Russians' daily consumption is much
higher than the average: in boutiques, in hotels, they also spend
a lot at the casino," said Michael Hoenigmann, marketing manager
at Kitzbuehel's five-star Harisch Hotel Weisses Roessl.


"They'll order dinner and a bottle of champagne without looking
at the price," added Martin Schaeffl, tourism board director in
Mayrhofen, the Russians' top winter resort destination in
Austria.


The average Russian visitor spends 250 euros (329 dollars) daily
compared to 114 euros for Germans or 118 for the Dutch, according
to Statistik Austria. And top accommodation is key: last year, 19
percent of Russian tourists in Vienna stayed in a five-star hotel
while 54 percent settled for four stars.


"We like them very much," said Ingrid Wurzenrainer, a saleswoman
at Kitzbuehel's Louis Vuitton boutique, adding that Russian
tourists come in not to browse but to buy.


Popular winter resorts like Mayrhofen and Soelden in the western
province of Tyrol are even multiplying services and special
events in the hope of attracting more Russians to their slopes.


Besides hiring Russian-speaking ski instructors, many now have
websites in Russian and several restaurants offer menus in the
Cyrillic alphabet.


"They're very happy to spend but only if they can communicate.
And now with all this, it's easier," said Soelden tourism
spokeswoman Carmen Fender.


Russians make up less than one percent of tourists to Austria per
year -- 133,658 visited in 2006 -- but in early January during
Orthodox Christmas and New Year's, the figure can reach 20
percent in places like Soelden, which now offers soirees with
Russian music and even a New Year's bash with a live broadcast of
President Vladimir Putin's speech.


Over 20 million foreign tourists visit Austria, a country of
eight million, every year.


"Many Russians are not coming for the first time, they are coming
for the second, third or fourth time... They like to come here to
ski and Vienna is a popular shopping destination," said Russian
embassy spokesman Roman Nikischin. Some even visit just for the
weekend.


But recent reports show rich Russians are increasingly buying
prime Austrian real estate.


In December, News magazine reported that billionaire Roman
Abramovich had bought a 15 million-euro (20 million-dollar) villa
on lake Attersee, a celebrity hotspot near Salzburg. Rumours then
surfaced in January that he had purchased a building on Vienna's
luxurious designer-shop avenue Kohlmarkt via a Liechtenstein-
based firm for 27 million euros.


In Kitzbuehel, billionairess Yelena Baturina, wife of Moscow
mayor Yury Luzhkov, reportedly bought a golf course and hotel
last summer for the round sum of 25 million euros.


"I can't confirm it at the moment, it's a rumour," said
Kitzbuehel city spokesman Felix Obermoser, adding the sale was
still being examined.


Non-EU citizens cannot purchase property in Austria but "there
are always ways, through a private limited company for example,"
said Vienna realtor Ernst Thomas who specialises in high-class
real estate.


Between 35 and 40 percent of his clients are Russian: "They have
more and more capital at their disposal and they want to invest."


Reports that several high-end Kitzbuehel hotels wanted to limit
to 10 percent the number of Russian guests in their
establishments caused an international outcry in January. Tourism
officials scrambled to squash the reports, insisting on the
contrary they hoped to attract more Russians in the future.


"We haven't imposed a quota. It would be a catastrophe: who would
we rent those luxury suites to?" said Hoenigmann with a laugh.

