

Tens of thousands of people demonstrated on Saturday across
several European cities in protest at the war in Iraq, ahead of
the fourth anniversary of the US- led invasion.


Spain saw the biggest demonstrations, with organisers saying some
400,000 attended a major rally in Madrid to protest the US
intervention in Iraq in 2003, supported at the time by Spain's
government but overwhelmingly opposed by the Spanish population.
Spanish police did not give any crowd estimates.


The marchers in the Spanish capital followed the example of
numerous rallies in the United States and across Europe from
Turkey to Denmark.


Three dozen marchers clad in orange in the style of alleged
Islamic radicals held at the US "enemy combatant" camp in
Guantanamo Bay brandished a huge banner as they set off at the
head of the Madrid rally.


Others waved placards denouncing US President George W. Bush and
also former Spanish prime minister Jose Maria Aznar for "war
crimes" and called on them, along with British Prime Minister
Tony Blair, to apologise for Iraq's suffering.


Rosa Regas, the head of Madrid's public library said the war had
caused Iraq to "lose its identity" and claimed the conflict
marked the United States' "second great failure in its history"
in an apparent allusion to the Vietnam War.


Spanish media said some 1,500 people gathered in Barcelona, while
hundreds more also rallied in several other cities including
Seville and Granada.


Saturday's marches however were on a much smaller scale than
those of four years ago, when Madrid was the scene of a massive
protest by more than one million people on February 15, 2003 just
ahead of the invasion.


In Turkey, some 6,000 people demonstrated in Istanbul -- 3,000 on
both of the European and Asian sides of the city -- to calls of
"US go!" and "Stop the occupation!"


Turkish public opinion solidly opposes the war and in 2003 Turkey
refused to let US troops use Turkish soil, preventing the opening
of a second front in the north of the country.


Demonstrations also took place in the Greek cities of Athens and
Salonika, where hundreds of protestors called for an "end to the
occupation."


In Denmark several hundred protesters demonstrated against
Denmark's participation in the war, singing songs, holding
speeches and carrying banners outside the US embassy in
Copenhagen, the online edition of daily Politiken reported.


Denmark has had troops in Iraq since August 2003, the majority of
them based around the southern city of Basra under British
command.


Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced last month that
the Scandinavian country would withdraw its 460 troops in August
this year. They are to be replaced by four helicopters and 50
men.


In Nicosia, around 300 demonstrators marched on the US embassy,
together with a number of European left-wing politicians
attending a conference taking place in the Cypriot city.


The rally was organised by left-wing Pancyprian Peace Council and
the key speaker was communist Akel party leader Demetris
Christofias.


"Four years since the invasion of Iraq, has only made it clearer,
as in the case of Afghanistan and Yugoslavia, that the notorious
'New World Order' means none other than war and bloodshed,"
Christofias told the crowd.


The US invaded Iraq on March 20, 2003.

