

Thousands of Australians thronged the Sydney Harbour Bridge on
Sunday to mark the 75th birthday of the iconic landmark which has
come to represent the city to millions of people around the
world.


An estimated 200,000 people are expected to walk the 503 metres
(1,660 feet) across the bridge, which was the biggest of its kind
in the world when it opened on March 19, 1932.


Celebrations began with an official reopening during which the
governor of New South Wales Marie Bashir described the bridge as
a Sydney legend.


"But most of all the bridge has given us a legend, a story, a
source of global pride," she said.


"It's the bridge of our dreams, purchased by the coins of our
people which has paid us back a hundredfold in its strength and
it's massive grace.


"The Sydney Harbour Bridge will never date, never grow old -- a
structure of its time has become a structure for all times," she
said.


Unlike the official ceremony, when a renegade former soldier
interrupted official proceedings to cut the ribbon, Bashir was
unhindered.


"It was lovely -- a moment in history," she said after snipping
the tape.


Bashir said it was also important that another wrong was put to
right -- that the 16 workmen who died during construction of the
bridge were remembered in this year's official proceedings. A
plaque was unveiled Sunday in memory of those who were not
mentioned during the 1932 opening.


"What is really most important is... we remember those who lost
their lives," Bashir told AFP. "This is what makes Australia."


The bridge was a major engineering achievement and during the
seven years it took to build, it provided much needed employment
to many Australian men during the depression, earning it the
nickname of the 'iron lung'.


Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull, who Sunday named the
bridge as a national heritage item which cannot be altered, said
the steel-arched structure was a reminder of the nation's
strength in the face of adversity.


"The bridge was completed right in the middle of Australia's
darkest days," Turnbull said.


"Australia had been bled dry by the First World War, flattened by
the Great Depression, and for the nation to create this
extraordinary bridge right in the centre of our most important
gateway city is like an adrenaline shot of confidence for a
nation that had been on its knees."


When the bridge opened in 1932 most Sydneysiders walked across
the bridge which finally joined two halves of the city together.


"I can remember the crowd of people, I can remember the elation
of it all, because there was a lot of publicity around and all
the adults were talking about it," 79-year-old Bruce Bobbington
told Australian Associated Press.


Ross Selvage, 74, said it was impossible to imagine Sydney
without its coat hangar-like bridge and praised officials for the
smooth running of the day.


"It has gone perfectly," he said Sunday.


His wife Glenda said official reopening had "brought tears to my
eyes."


"It's so beautiful. It, with the Opera House, makes Sydney," she
said.

