

Teenager Tamim Iqbal and Mashrafe Mortaza turned giant-killers to
script Bangladesh's dream five-wicket victory over India in their
opening World Cup match here on Saturday.


Left-handed opener Iqbal, who turns 18 on Tuesday, smashed a
rapidfire 51 for his maiden half-century as his team successfully
chased a 192-run target on a good batting track at the Queen's
Park Oval.


Iqbal was not the only teenager to play a big role in
Bangladesh's second win over India in 15 one-dayers, as Saqibul
Hasan (53) and wicket-keeper Mushfiqur Rahim (56 not out) put on
84 for the fourth wicket.


Bangladesh boosted their chances of qualifying for the next
round. They will play Sri Lanka and debutants Bermuda in their
next two games, while India need to win their remaining two
matches in Group B stay in the contention.


The stunning triumph was set up by Mortaza, who grabbed four
wickets in a superb exhibition of fast bowling to rattle the
famed Indian batting line-up. India were dismissed for 191, their
lowest total against Bangladesh.


Only Sourav Ganguly (66) and Yuvraj Singh (47) managed to keep
their batting reputation intact on India's first day in the
tournament, which eventually ended in a nightmare.


It was Bangladesh's biggest day in the tournament since making
their debut in 1999. They had just one win against a Test-playing
nation when they beat Pakistan in England, but the result later
came under suspicion of match-fixing.


Habibul Bashar's side were the deserving winners as they bowled
with great discipline, fielded with enthusiasm and then batted
boldly to stun their higher- ranked opponents.


Iqbal never gave the impression he was playing his fifth one-
dayer as he treated the Indian attack with sheer contempt,
hitting two sixes and seven fours in his 53-ball knock.


The pick of his shots was a huge six off left-arm fast bowler
Zaheer Khan, the batsman stepping out to send the ball crashing
into the stands. His audacious innings ended when he was caught
behind off paceman Munaf Patel.


His blitz eventually demoralised India, who continued to struggle
for wickets as Rahim and Hasan batted sensibly to ensure the
efforts of Iqbal and Mortaza did not go waste.


The 18-year-old Rahim kept one intact with his second half-
century, while the 19 -year-old Hasan struck one six and five
fours in his third half-century.


The morning session belonged to Mortaza, who jolted the Indian
top order on a pitch which offered both bounce and movement. He
not only took two early wickets, but also kept beating the bat
during his fiery opening spell.


He was brilliantly supported by left-arm spinners Mohammad
Rafique (3-35) and Abdur Razzak (3-38) on a day when Bangladesh
kept the pressure on India right from the opening over.


Ganguly top-scored for India with a half-century, but even he too
was not allowed to score freely by the Bangladeshi seamers and
spinners.


Only Yuvraj Singh played with freedom in his team's below-par
batting performance, smashing a 58-ball 47. He shared an 85-run
stand for the fifth wicket with Ganguly.


Mortaza and left-arm seamer Syed Rasel kept the batsmen silent
during their opening spells, while Razzak and Rafique continued
the good job to reduce India to 72-4.


Both the teams observed a minute's silence before the match in
memory of Bangladeshi cricketer Manjural Islam, who died in a
road accident near Dhaka on Friday.

