

Mixed signals on the US economy have put the Federal Reserve in a
quandary as it tries to steer monetary policy amid fresh
inflation concerns but also a slumping housing market, analysts
say.


The central bank's Federal Open Market Committee headed by Ben
Bernanke is widely expected to hold its base interest rate steady
at 5.25 percent at a two- day meeting opening Tuesday.


The federal funds rate has been unchanged since August, when the
Fed halted a string of 17 quarter-point increases. But
policymakers have warned in the past few meetings that they are
watching inflation and could hike rates again to keep prices in
check.


The hotter-than-expected inflationary pressures have become
evident with a stunning 1.3 percent jump in February's producer
price index (PPI) and a 0.4 rise in the consumer price index
(CPI).


This has disappointed those who have been waiting for Bernanke's
predicted "moderation" in inflation that could allow the Fed to
cut rates to stimulate a sluggish economy.


The latest inflation reports "do not permit the Fed to soften its
stance on inflation risks, at least not yet," said Stephen
Gallagher, economist at Societe Generale.


"The Fed anticipates a reduction of inflation and over time we
agree. The problem is that the decline is not fast enough to give
the Fed maneuvering room at present."


Gallagher said the FOMC meeting "should be an opportunity to
repeat the status quo -- no rate changes and a risk bias that
inflation could be higher than expected."


Later this year, assuming inflation eases, Gallagher predicts the
Fed will cut rates twice in 2007 for "insurance" against
recession, but may have to do more if the economy fails to gather
momentum.


But some experts are abruptly reassessing their forecasts in the
wake of the meltdown in the subprime mortgage sector, the
riskiest part of the housing market, amid rising defaults in
loans to people with poor credit histories.


A key question for the Fed is whether the problems are contained
or lead to a wider contagion that affects the broader economy.


Goldman Sachs economist Andrew Tilton said he believes the woes
in the housing sector will have "an important spillover" that
hurts consumer spending, leaving the economy growing at a weak
2.0 percent pace for most of the year, forcing the Fed to change
course.


"Further weakening in the housing market and a slowdown in
spending should contribute to labor market weakness in coming
months," Tilton wrote in a note to clients.


"We expect sufficient deterioration to prompt Fed easing by
midyear, pushing the funds rate down to 4.50 percent by the end
of 2007."


Tilton said he cannot rule out a more grim scenario involving a
"credit crunch" that spreads to the mainstream banking sector,
but says a recession is "less probable."


The Fed, in its latest Beige Book report, cited some pockets of
slowing activity in the economy but said the expansion is
continuing. But the Fed is still predicting US gross domestic
product growth (GDP) in a range of 2.5 to 3.0 percent for 2007.


David Kotok at Cumberland Advisors said the central bank should
not get caught up in the "hysteria" of the subprime mortgage
market, which is a relatively small part of the economy.


"The economy is in a sweet spot and the Fed essentially has to do
nothing but stay the course," Kotok told AFP. "They have to be
vigilant on inflation."


Kotok said there will be "some pain" for homeowners and the
financial sector but no "systemic shock" to the economy.


"There is no systemic shock and no crisis of contagion coming
from the subprime mortgage hysteria," he said.


"There is trouble in the housing sector, any idiot could have
seen it two years ago," he added, but argued that the Fed will
not act to bail out lenders or borrowers who took on too much
risk.


"The Fed has never guaranteed a 'put' (bailout) to every
speculative home buyer and they won't do it now," he said.

