

Adam Gilchrist believes the World Cup six-hitting show, so
spectacularly headlined by record-breaking Herschelle Gibbs, will
reach even greater heights as the tournament progresses.


The Australian vice-captain says that a combination of small
grounds, short boundaries and the power game of the world's
leading teams, will see totals get bigger and bigger.


"Most of the top teams have got power hitters in one-day
cricket," said Gilchrist.


"Most of the grounds in this region are pretty small. Such is the
way that batsmen approach the closing overs in one-day cricket,
there are going to be a lot of sixes hit."


Gilchrist, one of the game's most destructive batsmen and who was
relishing taking on the hapless Dutch attack on the compact
Warner Park ground here on Sunday, insists that he and those like
him still have to adapt to conditions.


"We've got be able to hit a good yorker, try not to be
predictable in what we're delivering. I guess that's what all
teams are doing.


"Batsmen are being innovative. Try not to be predictable and then
whatever it is you are trying to do, do it well."


Gilchrist admitted that the slow pitches in the Caribbean are
giving teams plenty to think about and that taking the pace off
the ball can put pressure on batsmen.


"Some of the wickets here are going to provide assistance to
slower bowling, and that brings everyone into the game a bit more
than an absolute flat track does where batsmen can swing freely,
so it's evening up the contest."


Australia are already looking beyond Sunday's Group A game
against the Netherlands who were crushed by 221 runs by South
Africa on Friday, the game in which Gibbs smashed his six sixes
in an over.


The big match in Group A comes next Saturday when the defending
champions play South Africa for top spot and the two extra points
which will be carried through to the second round Super Eights.


Gilchrist, whose Australian team brushed aside Scotland by 202
runs in their first game, said South Africa's brutal destruction
of the Netherlands was not surprising.


"To be honest it was expected. They got a lot of runs and like
our first game their batsmen got good hits and the bowlers got to
bowl a few," said the 35 -year-old Gilchrist who has 8,631 runs
in 258 one-day internationals and 14 centuries.


He also has 423 dismissals behind the stumps -- the most in
limited overs cricket.

