

Middlesbrough manager Gareth Southgate is confident a rested Mark
Viduka can help his team bounce back from a 2-0 defeat at home to
Manchester City by knocking their neighbours United out of the FA
Cup on Monday.


"I may be a complete idiot, but I truly think we can go there and
beat them," said Southgate, who rested both Viduka and England
defender Jonathan Woodgate on Saturday in preparation for the
visit to Old Trafford.


"I've got to take responsibility for the result against City
because I made a couple of changes and it may have sent out the
wrong message.


"Inevitably, we had more than an eye on Monday's cup-tie. When
you have a game like that coming it's hard for a player to put it
out of his mind."


Southgate will not have his strongest side at Old Trafford
because Emanuel Pogatetz suffered a knee injury against City and
has been ruled out.


Julio Arca is also having treatment for a groin strain, but
expects to be fit to play in midfield - and he hopes that
Middlesbrough's desire is not matched by United.


Arca, who starred in the first meeting, knows  the Old Trafford
club could be concentrating on the Premiership and the Champions
League and hopes they have put the FA Cup at the bottom of their
list of priorities.


He said: "They have a great chance of winning the treble, but I
don't think the FA Cup is so important to them.


"They played a weaker team in the last round against Reading and,
although we faced the full team at the Riverside, they may rest
players for the replay."


In contrast, Middlesbrough's sole focus is the cup and Arca said:
"We want to get to the final and this game is so important to us.
We will go to Old Trafford, play football and attack."


It's a philosophy that could backfire if the likes of Ronaldo and
Wayne Rooney are in the United team - and in the mood to seal a
semi-final place.


Arca is among the greatest admirers of the two internationals,
although he was cheeky enough to nutmeg Ronaldo in the first
meeting.


"It was funny because he does it to everyone else," said Arca.
"We exchanged shirts afterwards and he was laughing about it. He
said 'nice one'.


"I love to see players like him doing tricks so long as it's not
against me and my team. He's a fantastic player, the best in the
world - better than Ronaldinho at the moment.


"Ronaldo is only 22, but is already the perfect player with
nothing missing from his game. He is incredible and Manchester
United are lucky to have him."


Arca is equally effusive over Rooney.


"Wayne will be a world great. He has already played in one World
Cup and will play in two or three more."

