

Steve Howard fired Derby back to the top of the Championship as
his double strike clinched a 3-1 win against Cardiff on Saturday.


Howard opened the scoring with a 28th minute penalty and the
striker added Derby's third in the second half to give Billy
Davies's side a three-point lead in the race for promotion.


Cardiff midfielder Paul Parry had drawn the Welsh play-off
chasers level four minutes after Howard's spot-kick. But a
stunning individual effort from Giles Barnes in the 49th minute
restored Derby's lead before Howard ensured a first win in three
matches with his 16th goal of the season.


Sunderland moved a step closer to automatic promotion as they
went second after a 2-0 win against Hull.


Roy Keane's side edged ahead of Birmingham on goal difference
thanks to goals from Jonny Evans and Stern John at the Stadium of
Light.


Birmingham can reclaim second place if they avoid defeat in a
crucial match at West Bromwich on Sunday and can go top with a
victory, but Sunderland will feel they are well-placed to return
to the Premiership after a seventh win in nine matches.


Evans, on loan from Manchester United, gave Sunderland the
perfect start when he headed home Dean Whitehead's free-kick in
the third minute.


Sunderland dominated throughout and John sealed the points when
he punished poor defending with a 90th minute strike.


Preston consolidated their play-off spot with a 2-0 win over
local rivals Burnley at Deepdale.


David Nugent has been linked with a call-up to the England squad
and he underlined his growing reputation with the 33rd minute
opener.


Matt Hill's long throw was chested down by Brett Ormerod and
Nugent turned to finish well.


Patrick Agyemang came off the bench to claim the second goal
after 75 minutes when he took Nugent's pass and drove home to
leave Burnley without a win in 18 matches.


Andy Keogh rescued Wolverhampton with a late equaliser that
salvaged a 2-2 draw at 10-man Sheffield Wednesday.


Mick McCarthy's fifth-placed side twice fell behind to goals from
Deon Burton and Steven MacLean. Michael McIndoe got the first
leveller for Wolves before Frank Simek was sent off for Wednesday
and Keogh snatched a draw in the 90th minute.


QPR climbed out of the relegation zone as Marc Nygaard's brace
set up a 3-1 win at Leicester.


Inigo Idiakez gave QPR the lead before Danish striker Nygaard
struck twice. Iain Hume's last minute penalty was no consolation
for Leicester.


That result meant rock bottom Leeds are now five points from
safety despite a dramatic 1-1 draw at relegation rivals Southend.


Dennis Wise's side looked destined for a devastating defeat when
Mark Gower gave the hosts a first half lead, but David Healy
grabbed an 89th minute equaliser.


Luton fans called for their club's board of directors to quit
after a 2-0 home defeat against Ipswich kept the Hatters, who
sacked boss Mike Newell in midweek, second bottom of the table.

