

A government ban on public gatherings was quickly forgotten in
Bangladesh as thousands of jubilant fans partied into the night
after their cricket team's shock World Cup victory over India.


Deafening sound broke the night silence as thousands roared and
waved flags on the Dhaka University campus and elsewhere in the
capital to celebrate the country's success over cricketing giants
India.


Bangladesh, the perennial minnows of the world cricket, won their
World Cup Group B opening match by beating India with a
comprehensive five wickets margin.


"We will be the world champions. The days of shame are over. It's
time to show what our boys can do," said Harunur Rashid, a
student of Dhaka University, who watched the game in front of
giant screens on the varsity campus.


Rashid and thousands of others joined an impromptu party in the
heart of the Bangladesh capital defying the interim government's
ban on all marches and processions.


"They marched through the areas in and around the campus. They
were waving flags and chanting Bangladesh! Bangladesh!" said
policeman Nizam Ahmed.


"It's a rare day in our cricket history. So who cares if there is
ban on processions," said student Rajib Ahsan.


"Even the police officers watched the matches in front of the
giant screens the university has set up. They also celebrated
this great victory," he added.


Bangladesh has been under a state of emergency since January
after the country's president cancelled elections and stepped
down as the head of the interim government.


A military-backed new government took over and imposed ban on
processions, meetings, marches and rallies as part of the
emergency measures.


Millions of Bangladeshis stayed awake Saturday night through
early Sunday morning to watch the match live on state-run
television.


The government's power generation company conserved electricity
for the night to ensure uninterrupted coverage of the match.


As the match progressed, many supporters were seen saying prayers
for their team.


"For any victory, there is always an element of luck. I prayed to
Almighty God so that this luck factor does not conspire against
us,' said Muktadeer Hossain, a bank teller.


Fans also held victory processions in the western Bangladesh town
of Narail, hometown of Bangladesh hero Mashrafe Mortaza, police
officer Jamal Uddin said.


Mortaza grabbed four wickets for 37 runs with some accurate pace-
bowling to win the man of the match award.

