

A Kris Boyd hat-trick helped Rangers demolish Aberdeen 3-0 at
Ibrox on Saturday and take a huge step towards Champions League
football next season.


The striker's three first half goals put the Ibrox side on the
way to an easy Scottish Premier League victory to take them seven
points ahead of the third placed Dons.


And, with Celtic already certainties to lift the title - with a
13 point advantage before their match away to Falkirk on Sunday -
Walter Smith's Rangers side now look certain to finish as
runners-up.


However, while the Gers manager was thrilled with the victory, he
believes there is still work to be done before second place is
secured.


Smith said: "I was delighted with the first half performance and
everyone did well.


"It's a big result for us but it's important we stay focused.
After the league split our last five games are against teams in
the top six so points are going to be dropped.


"I hope we win all our games but I think it is important we try
to build a gap before we get to that stage."


Rangers had taken the lead in only the eighth minute.


Spanish striker Nacho Novo laid the ball out to Alan Hutton who
sent a high lob across goal for Boyd to rise above Aberdeen
defender Russell Anderson and send a downward header into the
bottom corner of the net.


Aberdeen had not defeated Rangers at Ibrox since September 1991
and in the 25th minute the hosts ensured this record would
continue.


Charlie Adam's attempted cross from the left deflected off the
leg of Aberdeen midfielder Scott Severin and Boyd was first to
react to prod the ball past goalkeeper Jamie Langfield from six-
yards.


And in the 31st minute Boyd completed his hat-trick to end any
lingering hopes the visitors had of taking anything from the
game.


Novo's pass released Hutton on the right and, after he slid in to
win the ball from Dons defender Andrew Considine, he pulled it
back for Boyd to rifle past Langfield from eight-yards.


Although Rangers continued to boss the play in the second half
they never really looked like adding to their advantage and
coasted to an easy victory in front of a crowd of 50,354.


Angry Aberdeen manager Jimmy Calderwood blamed his side's poor
defending for the loss.


He said: "It's very annoying that we've come here and made it so
easy for them. As a team we've defended very poorly which is
disappointing.


"We defended far too deeply and gave away poor goals and it's
very frustrating to come here and not play the way we can.


"It's going to be difficult to finish second now but there are
seven games left and we need to make sure we don't make the same
mistakes again."


In the other SPL games on Saturday there was a shock at
Tynecastle where Dundee United hammered Hearts 4-0.


The home side had been reduced to 10 men when Senegalese defender
Ibrahim Tall was sent-off before half-time. United took advantage
after the break with Barry Robson scoring a hat-trick, with Noel
Hunt scoring their third.


This result means fourth placed Hearts remain six points behind
Aberdeen in the chase for qualification for the UEFA Cup.


Bottom of the table Dunfermline won 3-1 away to Inverness
Caledonian Thistle to give themselves a glimmer of hope of
surviving in the SPL.


Caley had been ahead by half-time through Marcus Paatelainen but
two goals from Stephen Glass, and one in between from Jim
McIntyre meant the Pars move to within six points of second
bottom St Mirren.

