

The African Union on Saturday called on Zimbabwe to respect human
rights and democratic principles, in its strongest comments yet
on the political crisis engulfing the country.


AU commission chief Alpha Oumar Konare "recalls the need for the
scrupulous respect for human rights and democratic principles in
Zimbabwe," the pan-African body said in a statement.


"He urges all concerned parties to commence a sincere and
constructive dialogue in order to resolve the problems facing
Zimbabwe."


The statement said that Konare had followed recent developments
in Zimbabwe with "great concern."


Pressure has mounted on Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe after
police last Sunday crushed an opposition Movement for Democratic
Change (MDC) rally in Harare.


Its leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, and other opposition activists
were arrested for defying a police ban and then beaten while in
police custody.


Britain criticised Mugabe on Saturday saying the beatings of
opposition leaders had been a "deliberate act of policy."


"One can only hold him responsible," British Foreign Secretary
Margaret Beckett said in an interview recorded for BBC television
on Sunday.


"He is in charge of the government," Beckett said on BBC1's
Politics Show, according to a transcript of the interview
distributed at the weekend.


"He has made it very clear that this is a deliberate act of
policy on the part of the government of Zimbabwe and that he is
indifferent to the real, I think horror, that is felt right
across the international community," she said.


Meanwhile, another opposition leader was arrested on Saturday at
Harare's international airport, according to a party spokesman.


The spokesman said Arthur Mutambara, leader of a separate MDC
faction, was stopped by security before he boarded a flight to
South Africa. The reason for his arrest remained unclear.


Two other opposition officials have also had their passports
confiscated, a lawyer said.


The two officials, Grace Kwinje and Sekai Holland, were also
hospitalised after being beaten by security forces on Sunday and
were being airlifted to South Africa for medical treatment,
lawyer Aleck Muchadehama told AFP.


African Union chairman John Kufuor on Wednesday said the
situation in Zimbabwe was "embarrassing," but defended the AU
response to the crisis.


Demonstrators in London, where he was speaking, denounced the
African body's failure to condemn Mugabe outright.


Mugabe has brushed aside international condemnation sparked by
the images of a badly-beaten Tsvangirai, saying Western
governments could "go hang," and accusing the opposition of
waging a violent campaign against him.


Zimbabwe's opposition on Friday vowed to see through its campaign
to topple Mugabe as its leader left hospital in a wheelchair.


African leaders have acknowledged the dangers they face from the
economic meltdown in Zimbabwe, where inflation stands at 1,730
percent and unemployment at 80 percent.


But they have been reluctant to speak out, despite pressure for
regime change from the West.


South African Nobel laureate Desmond Tutu on Friday said African
leaders should be ashamed over the crisis in Zimbabwe.


Tutu said leaders on the continent had let Zimbabweans down many
times, holding 83-year-old Mugabe in high regard and insisting
that they respect his sovereignty.


Three Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries
charged with dealing with Zimbabwe -- Tanzania, Namibia and
Lesotho -- said Friday they would meet on March 26 and 27 in Dar
es Salaam to help find a solution.


The announcement came a day after talks with Mugabe that
Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete hailed as a "great success."


The AU, which replaced the Organisation of African Unity in 2002,
comprises 53 African states and aims to promote political, social
and economic development as well as security on the continent.


Also on Saturday, Portugal's foreign minister said the
controversy should not stop a summit between the European Union
and Africa planned to go ahead later this year. The summit is to
be held in Portugal.


A planned 2003 EU-Africa summit was indefinitely delayed due to
opposition from some European nations over the presence of
Mugabe.

