

The new Palestinian unity government holds its first cabinet
meeting in Gaza City on Sunday, with ministers in the Israeli-
occupied West Bank participating from Ramallah via video link.


The landmark coalition uniting rival factions Fatah and Hamas was
sworn in on Saturday, vowing to end a year-long international aid
boycott that has crippled the economy of the Palestinian
territories.


Israel has refused to have any contacts with the new government,
saying it fails to meet any of the Quartet's three conditions for
acceptance -- renouncing violence, recognising Israel and
honouring past peace accords.


Ministers in the West Bank will have to take part in the new
administration's first cabinet meeting by video link because of
Israeli restrictions on travel between the Palestinian
territories.


The new government unites the secular Fatah party of Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas with the Islamist Hamas movement of prime
minister Ismail Haniya.


But the new team seemed unlikely to meet international demands as
Haniya on Saturday defiantly proclaimed the Palestinians' right
to resist against Israel.


Israel called on the Quartet of Middle East mediators -- the
United States, European Union, United Nations and Russia -- to
maintain the aid freeze imposed on the Palestinian Authority one
year ago after the rise to power of Hamas.


Haniya was both tough and conciliatory in his speech to
parliament on Saturday, which was followed by a decisive 83-3
vote to approve the Fatah-Hamas coalition after months of
political wrangling and deadly internecine clashes that killed
scores of people.


Norway quickly announced that it would now recognise the Fatah-
Hamas government, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere saying in
Oslo he was satisfied the unity government had taken sufficient
steps towards meeting international conditions for acceptance.


Russia and France have also indicated a willingness to work with
the Fatah-Hamas coalition.


Arab countries including Syria, Jordan, Qatar and Yemen called
for the aid freeze to end, and the internationally respected new
finance minister, Salam Fayyad, said the Palestinian government
would not survive without international aid.


New foreign minister Ziad Abu Amr lashed out at Israel's
continued rejection of the unity government, the first cabinet to
include both Fatah and Hamas.


"The Israeli government is weak and is running away from
negotiations by clinging to old irrational positions," he told
AFP.


Although the United States has withheld judgment on the unity
government, Israeli officials quietly fear some Quartet members
will now end the aid freeze as the Palestinian economy continues
to nosedive.


"We feel that the wind is beginning to change among certain
European countries who seem ready to restart their aid, which
would constitute a victory for Hamas," a senior Israeli foreign
ministry official told AFP on condition of anonymity.


In Berlin, the German presidency of the European Union said it
was prepared to cooperate with a legitimate Palestinian
government which would adopt a platform in line with
internationally set conditions for Middle East peace.


"The Presidency of the EU recalls the readiness of the EU to work
with and to resume its assistance to a legitimate Palestinian
government adopting a platform reflecting the Quartet
principles," Germany said in a statement.


"The EU will carefully assess the platform and actions of the new
government and its ministers."


On the streets of Gaza City, the unity government was welcomed.


Sadi Shurab, 36, who works for the Palestinian Authority said:
"We hope this government... ends the chaos and the economic
boycott. We hope it returns salaries to the government employees
and provides work for the unemployed."


And 21-year-old Abd al Wahab Salim said: "I am happy with the
announcement of the unity government, but I don't feel like
partying... I want a life of dignity without fear."


The new interior minister Hani al-Qawasmeh told AFP: "The first
mission for us... is to work immediately to provide security and
stability in the Palestinian territories so that the citizen
feels comfortable, safe and secure."

