

Six months after Thailand's bloodless coup business is slow and
getting even slower for Bualoy Inpira, a wheelchair-bound lottery
ticket vendor in downtown Bangkok.


She says her sales depend on how lucky Thais are feeling about
the future. And those receipts are steadily declining as people
start to worry that their luck is running out.


"Our country is still in turmoil. For myself, I don't feel
confident about my personal safety. Things just haven't improved
like we hoped they would with the coup," she told AFP.


"The economy now doesn't looking good, and the political
situation makes people uncomfortable spending money," the 37
-year-old said.


It is a common refrain in Thailand these days.


When tanks rolled into Bangkok's streets late on September 19,
many people -- especially in the capital -- thought the ouster of
prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra would end a year of political
turmoil and street protests.


Parents dressed their children in army green and posed for
pictures next to tanks. One radio station even despatched exotic
dancers dressed in camouflage miniskirts to boost the troops'
morale.


General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, the army chief who led the
takeover, insists he staged the coup "to preserve democracy" and
fight corruption -- even as the junta ripped up the constitution,
imposed martial law, banned street protests and suspended the
activities of political parties.


Some hailed the putsch as a "silk revolution" that passed off
peacefully, crediting Thailand's revered King Bhumibol Adulyadej
with preventing violence by giving his blessing to the generals.


But instead of ending Thailand's political turmoil, the putsch
has merely brought the crisis to a new level in a country all too
familiar with military takeovers, after 17 coups in the last 75
years.


"People are becoming increasingly frustrated and disenchanted
with the government and with the military," political analyst
Thitinan Pongsudhirak said.


The economy is slowing, partly because of a series of policy
bungles by the army-backed government that has scared off foreign
investors.


Martial law has been lifted across half of Thailand but security
fears are growing. A separatist insurgency in the Muslim-majority
south has intensified, while dozens of mysterious arsons at
schools have rattled northern provinces that were Thaksin's
bedrock of support.


Deadly bomb attacks in Bangkok on New Year's Eve made it clear a
military government was no guarantee of safety. While the tanks
in the capital are now gone, people face security searches on
subways, in stores and around hotels.


"I don't understand why we have to live in a situation like this.
There are always warnings about more attacks," 16-year-old
Kanokpan Sawai-ngam told AFP at a Bangkok shopping mall.


"Everywhere I go, security guards are checking for bombs."


The coup's major stated justification was to root out alleged
corruption under Thaksin's government, which the ex-premier's
critics say was highlighted by the sale of his telecom firm Shin
Corp to Singapore's state-linked Temasek Holdings.


The sale earned his family nearly two billion dollars, all tax
free, and ignited popular protests that precipitated the coup.


So far, a raft of investigations has turned up only charges of
tax evasion against his wife and other relatives, accusations
that have nothing to do with the Temasek deal.


Meanwhile, public doubts are growing over whether elections
promised by December will really bring back democracy.


The committee working on a new constitution cannot even agree
whether the prime minister should be elected at all, with some
key generals calling for an appointed premier.


The sense of disillusion has begun to recall the last military
government, which was welcomed when it took power in 1991 but
collapsed the next year amid bloody pro-democracy protests.


"I just pray that we don't see the kind of violence we saw in the
past, as more and more people appear to be turning against the
junta," lottery vendor Bualoy said.


"If any violence breaks out, or another coup happens, it's people
like me who would be affected the most."

