

Favourites Thomas Lurz and Larisa Ilchenko overcame chilly and
choppy seas to clinch the men's and women's 5km open water gold
medals at the World Swimming Championships Sunday.


They were the first medals awarded after the championships were
offically opened Saturday evening with a ceremony in the Rod
Laver Arena, better known as centre court of the Australian Open
tennis Grand Slam.


Later Sunday, the free combination synchronised swimming gold
medal will be decided before the diving competition and water
polo get under way on Monday.


Germany's Lurz grabbed his third consecutive title in 56mins
49.9secs, barely one second ahead of Russia's Evgeny Drattsev.
Spyridon Gianniotis of Greece came third.


"It's great. It's the third time in a row. It's such a big
thing," said the 27 -year-old, who also competes in the pool in
the 1500m.


"Every time it gets a little harder because you put yourself
under much more pressure," he said. Talking about his winning
streak, he said: "It's not going to be like this forever."


Like other swimmers, he complained about the conditions after a
cool breeze whipped up the waves at St Kilda Beach.


"I don't like these strong waves. I hope that there will be less
waves in the 10km competition but I don't think it will happen,"
he said.


Drattsev also said the swell made it difficult.


"For me these weather conditions are perfect, but the waves came
as a shock. The waves made it very difficult," he said.


"Of course there were mistakes. It was my first time to see
really big waves in the finish."


Ilchenko claimed the women's crown in 1hr 41.3sec, taking the
lead at the last turn to fight off compatriot Ekaterina
Seliverstova, who took silver just 2.3 seconds behind with
Australia's Kate Brookes-Peterson third.


It was the closest finish ever recorded over the distance and
Ilchenko's fourth successive 5km world title in an event that is
held every year.


She did it the hard way, recovering from being kicked in the face
by America's Leah Gingrich who set the early pace.


"I got hit during the second lap because the American suddenly
decided to use breaststroke. Her leg kicked me in the eye,
knocked my glasses off my head. I was swimming with one eye
open," said Ilchenko, 20.


It clearly fired her up and she hit out at Gingrich, who faded to
finish 17th, once the race was over.


"It's silly to go out in front at the start. I'd never make that
mistake," she said.


Ilchenko has established herself as the top women's open water
swimmer in the world and she was relieved more than anything to
take gold here.


"For me it just confirms that to hold on to a title is harder
than to get it in the first place," she said.


Brookes-Peterson said she was overjoyed to win the home nation's
first championship medal.


"I'm going through a lot of emotions at the moment. The main ones
are joy and happiness. I'm so stoked to bring home this first
medal for Australia," she said.


The free combination synchronised swimming final is expected to
be a showdown between Russia, Japan, Spain and the United States
who ended the preliminaries placed one to four respectively.


A total of 12 combination routines will be swum.

