

Prime Minister Tony Blair is to ask US President George W. Bush
for special treatment for Britain before a European vote on the
proposed "Open Skies" deal to free up the transatlantic aviation
market, a newspaper reported Sunday.


The Sunday Times said the deal would force Britain to open up
London's Heathrow, the world's busiest and most lucrative
international airport.


Airline industry sources quoted by the newspaper said Blair is
likely to speak to Bush on Tuesday and urge Washington to commit
to liberalise its aviation industry before opening up Heathrow.


The British leader is also likely to suggest a five-month delay
in introducing an "Open-Skies" deal, and press for the right of
"automatic termination" if the United States fails to cooperate,
the newspaper said.


Sources in Washington quoted by the newspaper said the US
government was only likely to consider the request for a delay.
"I think we could live with that," one source was quoted as
saying.


European Union transport ministers are scheduled to meet later
this week to vote on the open-skies deal, which currently offers
no special concessions to Britain.


Only two airlines from each side of the Atlantic -- British
Airways and Virgin from Britain, and American and United from the
United States -- are allowed to fly to US cities from Heathrow.


In exchange for access to Heathrow, the newspaper said, Britain
wants Washington to relax restrictions on airline ownership and
domestic flights. Only American citizens are allowed to control
US carriers, and no foreign airline can fly internal routes.


On March 5, British Airways called on the European Union not to
"sell Europe short" in the proposed "Open Skies" deal.


BA argued a draft agreement sealed days earlier by EU and US
negotiators was tilted in favour of the United States.


BA chairman Martin Broughton said the deal was a "template
designed to bolster US interests," which gave "minuscule
concessions dressed up as significant breakthroughs."

