

Norway said on Saturday it would normalise ties with the
Palestinian government after the creation of coalition government
uniting Hamas and Fatah.


"In its programme, the unity government is taking important steps
towards complying with the international community's demands.
Norway will thus on this basis re-establish political and
economic relations with the Palestinian government," Foreign
Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said in a statement.


The Palestinian parliament on Saturday voted in favour of the
landmark unity cabinet, which it is hoped will end a turbulent
year of factional bloodshed and an international boycott.


The international community froze aid to the Palestinians after
Hamas swept to power in elections in March 2006. As a condition
to resume aid, it has demanded that Hamas renounces violence,
recognises Israel and honours past peace accords.


Norway, contrary to the United States and the European Union of
which it is not a member, never formally suspended its financial
aid to the Palestinians since no aid was due to be sent after the
formation of the Hamas government.


But in April 2006 it said it would not continue its aid until the
international community's demands were met.


"On the basis of the new government's political platform, Norway
expects the Palestinian authorities to respect basic
international standards as regards compliance with previously
concluded agreements, renunciation of violence and recognition of
Israel's right to exist," Gahr Stoere said.


The Scandinavian country, broker of the Oslo accords, called on
the international community to cooperate with Palestinian
authorities.


"We particularly call on Israel to take a constructive approach
to the unity government, for example by releasing withheld
Palestinian revenues from taxes and fees and by increasing the
freedom of movement for the Palestinian population," the foreign
minister said.


Israel on Saturday rejected contacts with the new Palestinian
unity government and urged the West to maintain its boycott.


Gahr Stoere added that Norway would "deal with members of the new
Palestinian government as representatives of a broad and
representative unity government," but stressed that it "upholds
its demands on Hamas as an organisation."

