

Singapore wants a "constructive relationship" with Indonesia
despite Jakarta's decision to ban sand exports to the city-state,
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in remarks published Sunday.


The export ban on sand excavated from land in February has
affected Singapore's recovering construction sector hard as the
city-state, which lacks natural resources, relies on the imported
commodity to produce concrete.


A Singapore minister has said the higher costs of importing sand
from elsewhere could push project costs up by as much as three
percent.


Singapore has had to tap its own land sand stockpile to stabilise
prices of the commodity and source from other countries for the
material, Lee was quoted as saying in the Sunday Times.


"It's unfortunate that this problem has come up," said Lee, whose
remarks on the issue with Japanese media ahead of his visit to
Tokyo were reported in the newspaper.


"The official explanations are that it's because of concern over
the environment and that it has nothing to do with other issues
which we are negotiating, like the extradition treaty and the
defence cooperation agreement or the ongoing talks on boundary
demarcation."


Lee said Singapore accepted Jakarta's explanations and hoped the
two neighbours can still work together.


"So we accept these explanations as they're given to us and we
hope that over time, the matter will stabilise and we will be
able to resume our cooperation," said Lee.


"We really want a constructive relationship and we do not see any
advantage in raising the temperature."


On Thursday, Singapore's ministry of foreign affairs said the two
countries have agreed to set a date for ministers and military
officers to discuss the extradition treaty and defence
cooperation pact.


The absence of an extradition treaty between the two countries
has been a thorn in bilateral relations as Jakarta considers such
a pact as crucial in its fight against corruption.


Many suspects wanted in Indonesia on corruption charges have fled
to Singapore and continue to live there outside the reach of the
Indonesian justice, officials in Jakarta claim.


Indonesian legislators have also said that Singapore is used by
Indonesian criminals to launder money.


Singapore, a regional financial centre, has insisted it has
enough safeguards to prevent the country from becoming a magnet
for laundered funds.

