

Iraq's prospects four years after the US-led invasion are better
than many people are willing to admit, even if violence grips
parts of the country, Britain's foreign secretary said Sunday.


Interviewed on BBC television, Margaret Beckett strongly
disagreed with Hans Blix, the former chief UN weapons inspector
who reportedly said most people thought the only positive thing
since the invasion was Saddam Hussein's ouster.


"It might be what most people think, but it's complete nonsense,"
Beckett said on BBC 1's Politics Show.


"I mean I'm really quite surprised at Hans Blix saying something
so, so foolish, as well as so negative," Beckett said in the pre-
recorded interview.


"I mean does he think that the fact that so many people in Iraq
voted in their election, is of no importance," she said.


"It was important enough to them, to risk death to do it, and
there's been an enormous amount of work, schools rebuilt, health
centres, you know electricity and water infrastructure repair,"
she said.


While there are bombings and other violence in parts of Iraq, she
urged people not to forget the violence Saddam committed against
his own people, including the gassing of the Kurds.


She admitted many mistakes had occurred.


What was unexpected, she said, was how groups "wantonly"
destroyed things of no benefit to the Americans or to the
British, like infrastructure projects "intended to bring people
electricity and water."


Asked if she were in fact optimistic, she replied: "I do think
there are much better prospects for Iraq than people today want
to admit."


In studying background information ahead of the war's anniversary
on March 20, Beckett found "it's quite remarkable" how much
change and improvement "that there has been, which we never, ever
hear about."


However, she acknowledged the "terribly dangerous security
situation in some parts of Iraq," and the "real risk" that Iraqis
may not be able to prevail over the minority who seek to destroy
the country.


"But the Iraqi government and the people of Iraq, I believe are
becoming increasingly aware of the danger that this presents to
them and they're increasingly able to tackle it," she said.

