

Tens of thousands of people marched across Spain on Saturday on
the eve of the fourth aniversary of the US-led invasion of Iraq,
a conflict Spaniards overwhelmingly opposed.


Following the example of numerous rallies in the United States
and elsewhere in Europe, thousands gathered in Madrid, which was
the scene of a massive protest by more than a million people on
February 15, 2003 just ahead of the invasion.


Spain's conservative government at that time, which was
Washington's staunchest European ally after Britain, sent troops
to Iraq despite overwhelming public opposition.


Madrid's Social Forum leftist pressure group called for
Saturday's march in the capital with backing from the ruling
Socialist Party, the pro-Communist United Left and the main CC.OO
and UGT unions.


Marchers set off just after 6:00 pm (1700 GMT) from the Cibeles
Square with participants waving banners and demanding "peace now,
an end to war, an end to violence, an end to the occupation of
Iraq and close Guantanamo," an AFP correspondent at the scene
reported..


Three dozen marchers clad all in orange in the style of Islamic
radicals held at Guantanamo, the controversial US military
facility on Cuba, brandished a huge banner as they set off at the
head of the rally, while supporters waved placards denouncing US
President George W. Bush and also former Spanish prime minister
Jose Maria Aznar for "war crimes."


A year after the invasion Aznar's Popular Party surprisingly lost
a general election to the Socialists, who promptly withdrew
Spanish troops from Iraq, fulfilling a pre-election pledge.


The election took place three days after the Madrid train
bombings, which killed 191 people in Spain's worst terrorist
attack, and which investigators have blamed on Islamic radicals
sympathetic to Al-Qaeda who wanted revenge for Spanish
participation in the conflict.


Some marchers Saturday, among them Spanish Oscar-winning film
director Pedro Almodovar, waved republican flags and lambasted
"imperial wars" and the shedding of "blood for oil."


The Mardid march was set to conclude at the city's Atocha railway
station, a symbolic gesture as it was there that the March 2004
train bombs exploded.


Some marchers demanded Spain withdraw its troops serving in
Afghanistan with the NATO-led International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) but some also shouted their support for the
government of Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez
Zapatero.


In Barcelona, Spanish media said some 1,500 people had gathered
by early evening, where participants shouted: "All the troops
out. No to the occupation of Iraq and Palestine."


Hundreds of people also rallied in other cities, including
Seville, Cadiz and Granada in the south, Valencia in the east and
Pamplona and Gijon in the north, local authorities said.


The February 15 march four years ago came on a day of huge global
protest that saw an estimated three million people take to the
streets Rome and two million turn out in London.


Organisers in 2003 said close on two million marched in Madrid,
but local authorities put the figure at around 700,000.

