

China has, with much fanfare, passed a law protecting the private
sector, but the nation stands only at the beginning of a long
road towards a truly open and marked-based society, analysts
said.


Even local academics admit that China needs to pass more laws to
reform its economy and its political system, and that the
legislature itself also needs a major revamp to become more
efficient.


"There is a disjunction between law and actual reality," Han Xu,
a political scientist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
the nation's top think tank, said after the National People's
Congress' annual session ended Friday.


"A law can promulgate a principle, but it takes time and
additional rules to implement it in actual real life," he said.


A case in point is the Property Law, which accords equal
guarantees for private and state businesses, and could be of
historical significance.


Many observers have hailed the law as a giant leap in the
direction of a fairer society, where companies do not get
discriminated against because they happen to be funded out of
private citizens' pockets.


But others argue it is an example of a law that -- even after 13
years of debate and fine-tuning -- only lays out a framework, and
that yet more legislation is needed to fill in the holes.


"Fairness means equal opportunity, and in that respect, the
government still has much work to do," said Yan Jirong, a
professor at Peking University's School of Government.


In particular, he said, China needs tougher rules governing
monopolies, as large parts of the economy remain under government
control, with state-owned enterprises reaping unfair profits
because they face no competition.


"Monopoly is like raising the barrier for entry into the market
and excluding some people from sharing the benefits of reform. I
think there's a need to let them get equal opportunity," Yan
said.


If economic legislation is incomplete in China, even more ground
needs to covered in terms of laws governing the nation's social
and political life, some scholars said.


"Among laws that need to be passed, I'd like to see a law on the
freedom of association," said Mao Shoulong, a professor of public
administration at the People's University in Beijing.


"The government is paying more attention to non-governmental
organisations and other forms of association in civil society.
There are some rules governing this, but as far as I know, no one
has talked about an actual law."


One problem is that the passage of efficient, intelligent laws
are only possible if they are prepared by efficient, intelligent
lawmakers.


Hu Xingdou, an outspoken liberal economist at the Beijing
Institute of Technology, argued China's nearly 3,000 lawmakers
were, in many cases, not up to the job.


"The vast majority of delegates haven't undergone any form of
training prior to entering the legislature. They don't understand
the issues they are supposed to debate," he said.


"If the major issues are not decided in a scientific and
democratic way, it will lead to a lot of loss and waste."


Hu said the only solution would be a parliament more like the
full-time legislatures seen in the developed world, rather than
China's congress which meets only once a year generally for
between eight and 12 days.


"Parliament needs to be professionalised. We can't have
legislators who do this as a sort of hobby. We also need more
expertise. The representatives should include experts and
scholars from all areas, and not just cadres."


As for more dramatic reforms that open up society along a more
Western-style democratic model, Premier Wen Jiabao made it clear
in his traditional post- parliament press conference that people
should not hold their breath.


"For our socialism to go from being immature to mature,
unperfected to perfected and undeveloped to developed, will take
a very long time," Wen said.

