

Chelsea's chances of coming through their FA Cup quarter-final
replay at Tottenham on Monday were boosted by the breather they
enjoyed after killing off Sheffield United early in their
Premiership clash.


Chelsea boss Jose Mourinho admitted his thoughts turned to the
replay long before the end of his side's 3-0 victory at Stamford
Bridge on Saturday.


The champions, who remain six points behind Manchester United,
quickly took control thanks to early strikes from Andriy
Shevchenko and Salomon Kalou.


Mourinho was able to replace Frank Lampard with Michael Ballack
at half time and the German headed home the third just before the
hour mark before Shevchenko and Ashley Cole were also withdrawn
with Monday in mind.


Mourinho said: "With the game on Monday I was hoping we wouldn't
have to chase a negative result and it was very good for us that
we had a quick start.


"To be 2-0 after 20 minutes meant the game was comfortable and I
could rest some players.


"The players could enjoy the game and were not under pressure. We
had the points we needed and at the same time I could start
thinking about Monday."


Any advantage gained by Chelsea will be minimal however as
Tottenham, who held the champions to a 3-3 draw in the first Cup
clash last weekend, had an equally easy time of it against
Watford.


Tottenham have now scored 26 goals in eight matches after
strolling to a Paul- Robinson-inspired 3-1 victory at White Hart
Lane.


Normally England goalkeeper Robinson turns matches with his
saves, but this time he was on the scoresheet as he beat Ben
Foster, one of his main rivals to be his country's number one,
with a free-kick from deep in his own half.


Robinson's 75-yard punt after 63 minutes left Foster red-faced as
it looped over him to increase Spurs' lead after Jermaine Jenas's
header just before half-time.


Hossam Ghaly got the third and boss Martin Jol said: "It was a
crucial moment to score the second goal and the way he did it was
great.


"I thought it was his first goal ever but he said 'no, it's my
second', so I couldn't say any more after that. He scored a
header for Leeds too."


Robinson insisted he would not rub it in with Foster when they
meet for England's forthcoming Euro 2008 qualifers. He said: "I
will try not to mention it. I know what it's like and it's not
nice. It was a bit of a freak."


Jol praised Spurs for the way they are coping with a hectic
schedule of three games in six days and added: "It's not easy to
play all these games but I'm not complaining. We've probably
played more games than any other team, so that is what you want."


At Stamford Bridge, Shevchenko's 12th goal of the season arrived
in only the third minute after Ricardo Carvalho's charge forward
had unhinged the United defence. An emphatic left-foot finish
followed and Mourinho insisted the much- criticised Ukrainian
would go on to enjoy an even better campaign next season.


He said: "He is doing well in his first season in a completely
different football environment. I believe what will happen to him
will be the same as what has already happened to Didier Drogba -
his second season will be better than the first and the third
better than the second.


"That is the natural evolution of a striker who has come in from
many, many years in a completely different footballing
environment. In Italy everybody plays zonal defence, in England
it is man-to-man marking and it is difficult for a player to
adapt, especially if he is a striker."


Mourinho also made it clear he intended to remain at the Stamford
Bridge helm despite rumours of a rift with club owner Roman
Abramovich. "Yes, it is beginning to bother me a little," he
said. "But it doesn't change my mind.


"If I have to say 51 times instead of 50 that I want to stay at
Chelsea then I will say it 51 times. I want to be here next
season, that's 100 per cent, and I expect to be."

