

A British police probe into alleged party political corruption is
a year old this week -- but the man who triggered it claims it
may yet grow into one of the country's biggest scandals in
decades.


Speculation that Scotland Yard detectives are about to ask
prosecutors to decide whether to bring charges in the "cash for
honours" affair has mounted recently, although the officer in
charge denies he is nearly done.


Whatever the outcome of the probe clouding Prime Minister Tony
Blair's last months in office -- which started a year ago on
Wednesday -- the lawmaker who sparked it all still insists he did
the right thing.


"The gravity of this can't really be underplayed. It's the most
serious development of this century, if not more," Angus MacNeil
told AFP, dismissing suggestions the probe is just a storm in a
parliamentary tea room.


"It's unprecedented for a prime minister to be interviewed as
part of a police investigation. It's unprecedented for his inner
circle and two if his senior aides to be arrested and others to
be cautioned as suspects."


MacNeil, 36, was a relative political unknown this time last
year.


He entered the Westminster parliament in London less than two
years ago and represents the remote Na h-Eileanan an Iar
constituency off north-west Scotland, for the Scottish National
Party (SNP).


If the Western Isles are about as far removed from the often
insular world of Westminster politics as you can get, he is also
thought to be the first working sheep farmer to become an MP and
his mother tongue is Gaelic.


But his low profile ended after it emerged that Blair's governing
Labour Party nominated four wealthy businessmen to the unelected
upper House of Lords after they bankrolled the party's 2005
election campaign.


On March 21, 2006 the Metropolitan Police announced it was
investigating a complaint that Labour had breached the Honours
(Prevention of Abuses) Act 1925, which has only ever seen one
person prosecuted and convicted -- in 1933.


MacNeil, who dug out the obscure statute, has been on hand to
comment on every twist and turn since, looking on as the the
police edged closer to the door of Number 10 Downing Street,
Blair's official London residence.


Despite apparent concerns over the cost, length and even the
purpose of the investigation, MacNeil stands firm.


"It matters because we're meant to be in a democracy," he said.
"Even the suggestion or the possibility that you can buy your way
into a legislature in what should be a civilised western
democracy is unacceptable."


Four people have been arrested as part of the inquiry, including
Blair's director of government relations, Ruth Turner, and his
Middle East envoy, Lord Michael Levy, who is also Labour's chief
fundraiser.


The probe widened after Labour and the main opposition
Conservative Party admitted being secretly loaned nearly 14
million pounds (20.5 million euros, 27 million dollars) and 16
million pounds before the 2005 general election.


The smaller Liberal Democrats borrowed 850,000 pounds.


The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000
requires donations and non-commercial loans of more than 5,000
pounds to parties to be declared.


It also forbids foreign donations and set limits on general
election spending.


The inquiry extended further after Turner, who reports to Blair's
chief-of-staff Jonathan Powell and liaises with Labour, was
arrested on January 19 suspicion of perverting the course of
justice.


Levy -- nicknamed "Lord Cashpoint" because of his prodigious
fundraising -- was detained and quizzed on January 30 on
suspicion of conspiring to do the same. Both deny any wrongdoing.


Whether documents exist proving a link between the donations and
the offer of peerages -- seats in the House of Lords -- or Levy,
as is claimed but denied by him, asked Turner to change her story
to police, depends on prosecutors.


But MacNeil and his party believe the inquiry has helped clean up
British politics.


At the same time it has raised question marks over Blair's 1997
post-election claim that unlike the previous Conservative
administration, a Labour government would be "purer than pure".


On March 7, MPs voted in favour of reforming the centuries-old
House of Lords to make it a fully-elected second chamber instead
of a place of appointments and patronage. The Lords did the same
on Wednesday.


The SNP's constitutional affairs spokesman, Pete Wishart, said
after the lower House of Commons vote: "The 'cash for honours'
scandal was the elephant in the room of Lords reform.


"Appointment by patronage has never been so tarnished, and that
was reflected in the vote for full parliamentary democracy."


A report commissioned by the government after the secret loans
were revealed on Thursday recommended a 50,000-pound cap on
donations. All three parties are now making noises about greater
transparency.


MacNeil freely admits there was a political element to his
complaint, as the SNP -- which is hoping to form the next
government in Edinburgh in the Scottish Parliament elections in
May -- does not nominate individuals to the Lords.


"There is a wider issue," he says.


"If democracy is up for sale, when democracy is being sold and
you're not taking part in the sale and you're fighting parties
that have been funded with millions of pounds... it puts you at a
democratic disadvantage."

