

Ireland captain Trent Johnston set his sights on collecting the
West Indies' scalp after his bunch of part-timers and foreign
imports dumped mighty Pakistan out of the World Cup on Saturday.


Ireland, playing in their first World Cup, defeated the 1992
world champions and one of the game's superpowers, by seven
wickets at Sabina Park in one of the greatest sensations in the
history of the sport.


"We'll take on the West Indies with confidence and give a good
performance," said Australian-born Johnston who hit a huge six to
seal the win in the 43rd over as his side chased down 133 to win.


"We will give it 100-percent and be very competitive."


Incredibly, Ireland, an Associate member who do not play Test
matches, are on the verge of qualifying for the second round
Super Eights having collected three points from their win on
Saturday and their last-ball tie against Zimbabwe.


Johnston paid tribute to his team whose victory came on St
Patrick's Day.


"We were outstanding in the field today and the way we batted to
chase down the runs was fantastic. It was really tense at the
end.


"We were lucky to win the toss but we bowled well and put the
ball in all the right areas. We were always asking questions of
Pakistan.


"All the boys came of age today and to beat a team like Pakistan,
it is just amazing."


Pakistan skipper Inzamam-ul-Haq, playing in his fifth and final
World Cup, was devastated by the defeat which will almost
certainly lead to his axing if he doesn't retire beforehand.


"It was a very disappointing performance because it means we are
out of the World Cup," said Inzamam who played in the 1992 World
Cup winning team.


"It wasn't easy to bat first but all credit to Ireland. They
bowled tight lines and we played too many poor shots.


"It's my last World Cup, I wanted the team to do well but,
sometimes, these things happen."


Niall O'Brien, one of the few full-time players in the Ireland
team, was man-of- the-match for his top score of 72.


"I have had a tough last couple of months but I have worked hard
in the nets," said wicketkeeper/batsman O'Brien who plays county
cricket in England with Northants.


"Technique took care of itself today. The boys batted brilliantly
and the skipper saw us home in the end."

