

Up to 75,000 people protested Saturday over proposals by
Batasuna, the banned political wing of armed separatist group
ETA, to merge the northern Basque region with neighboring
Navarra, officials said.


The marchers descended on the northern city of Pamplona in
response to calls by the conservative regional Navarra
government, carrying banners reading "jurisdiction and freedom.
Navarra is not negotiable."


Batasuna had proposed merging the two regions as a means of
boosting the radicals' push for Basque independence.


ETA insists on an historical link with Navarra but Spain's 1978
constitution says the two regions could only merge if the people
of partially Basque-speaking Navarra, or Nafarroa in the Basque
language, formally agree.


The regions are administered separately but pro-independence
Basque nationalists would like to see it become joined to the
Basque provinces of Vizcaya, Alava, Guipuzcoa and the French
Basque region.


Batasuna spokesman Arnaldo Otegi, who is to unveil the party's
vision of the future of the two neighbouring regions on March 31,
insisted that the proposal "neither sells Navarra, nor puts
Navarra up for grabs nor does anything which (Navarra residents)
do not want to do."


Saturday's protest came two months before regional elections in
Spain and currently Batasuna cannot take part in the Basque poll
as the Spanish judiciary banned the group in 2003 for its links
with ETA, blamed for 819 deaths during a four-decade violent
independence campaign.


Otegi said Batasuna intended to see its supporters represented at
the polls one way or another, as was the case in the last
regional election in 2005 when the pro-Communist Party of the
Basque Homelands (EHAK), which Batasuna asked its electorate to
vote for, garnered nine out of 75 seats.


Mariano Rajoy, leader of Spain's opposition right-wing Popular
Party, participated in Saturday's protest, which the Socialist
government decried for stirring partisan passions.


Spanish First Deputy Prime Minister Maria Teresa Fernandez de la
Vega earlier said that Navarra's status would not change without
residents' approval as "Navarra is not negotiable."


But Rajoy, whose party last week brought tens of thousands onto
the streets of Madrid in protest at the release on parole of a
Basque separatist jailed for 25 murders, insisted Saturday's
marchers were merely "exercising their democratic right" to
protest.

