

Sir Christopher Evans, a lender to Britain's governing Labour
Party, has admitted discussing receiving a House of Lords seat
with the party's chief fundraiser Lord David Levy, a newspaper
reported Sunday.


However, Evans told The Sunday Telegraph that such discussions
were in a general sense and that Levy never offered him any seat
or honour in return for financial assistance, dismissing any
suggestion of wrongdoing.


Both Evans and Levy have been arrested as part of the cash-for-
honours probe launched a year ago after complaints that parties
had illegally offered seats, or peerages, in the unelected House
of Lords to financial backers.


The Telegraph said his comments were contained in a letter which
it obtained from the millionaire businessman that he wrote to
around 30 partners in his company, Merlin Biosciences.


It said the letter was written after he answered routine police
bail Saturday.


In the face of speculation in the media, Evans said he wanted to
show them the "courtesy" of briefing them on the police
investigation.


"It is my deepest and sincere conviction that I have done nothing
wrong here at all and I have repeatedly made that clear to the
police," he was quoted as saying in the letter.


He wrote that he had been a long-term Labour financial supporter,
and that Lord Levy, in late 2004, had asked him for one million
pounds to help with the general election campaign, which he
eventually did in the form of a loan.


"But I made it clear over the following months that I wanted a
formal written loan agreement with a commitment to repay that
loan by the end of 2006," he said.


He said he was motivated only by his support for Labour and for
Prime Minister Tony Blair's vision for the country.


"I certainly did not do it because Lord Levy ever made any offer
to procure a peerage or guarantee that he could do so," he said.


"He never had such conversations with me and prior to these
allegations I had never heard of him offering or dealing in such
honours at all."


Nonetheless, he added, they discussed the issue of a peerage.


"Did we ever discuss honours and politics? Did he ever say on the
countless occasions that I met him and his wife over the years
that I was deserving of a future honour or I should have a
political role and make a difference?


"Yes, he did. So what? Why should I be embarrassed by that fact
or such comments?"


Evans said he had "never made a secret" of being interested in
joining the House of Lords.


A spokesman for Evans refused to comment on the letter, but said
he had consistently protested his innocence. Blair's office also
refused to comment.

