

Tens of thousands of people marched across Spain on Saturday on
the eve of the fourth aniversary of the US-led invasion of Iraq,
a conflict Spaniards overwhelmingly opposed.


Following the example of numerous rallies in the United States
and elsewhere in Europe, thousands gathered in Madrid, scene of a
massive protest by more than a million people on February 15,
2003 just ahead of the invasion.


Spain's then conservative government, at the time Washington's
staunchest European ally after Britain, sent troops to Iraq
despite overwhelming public opposition which manifested itself in
a number of rallies.


The February 15 march four years ago came on a day of huge global
protest that saw an estimated three million people take to the
streets Rome and two million turn out in London.


Organisers said close on two million marched in Madrid, but local
authorities put the figure at around 700,000.


Madrid's Social Forum leftist pressure group called Saturday's
march in the capital, with backing from the ruling Socialist
Party, the pro-Communist United Left and the main CC.OO and UGT
unions.


Marchers set off just after six pm (1700 GMT) from the Cibeles
Square with participants waving banners as they demanded "peace
now, an end to war, an end to violence, an end to the occupation
of Iraq and close Guantanamo," the controversial US military
facility on Cuba.


Three dozen marchers clad all in orange in the style of Islamic
radicals held at Guantanamo brandished a huge banner as they set
off at the head of the rally while supporters waved placards
denouncing US President George W. Bush and also former Spanish
prime minister Jose Maria Aznar for "war crimes."


A year after the invasion Aznar's Popular Party surprisingly lost
a general election to the Socialists, who promptly withdrew
Spanish troops from Iraq, fulfilling a pre-election pledge.


The poll took place three days after the Madrid train bombings,
which killed 191 people in Spain's worst terrorist attack and
which investigators have blamed on Islamic radicals sympathetic
to Al-Qaeda who wanted revenge for Spanish participation in the
conflict.


Some marchers, among them Spanish Oscar-winning film director
Pedro Almodovar, waved republican flags as they lambasted
"imperial wars" and the shedding of "blood for oil."


Others demanded Spain withdraw its troops serving in Afghanistan
with the NATO- led International Security Assistance Force (ISAF)
while several also shouted their support for the government of
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero.


Spanish media said some 1,500 people gathered in Barcelona, while
hundreds more also rallied in other cities, including Seville,
Cadiz and Granada in the south and Pamplona in the north.

