

Northern Ireland's tortuous peace process is on a knife edge,
just a week away from what could be a final, lasting settlement
between Protestants and Catholics in the long-troubled province.


As the clock ticks down towards a March 26 deadline, all eyes are
on firebrand Protestant leader Ian Paisley, whose Democratic
Unionists (DUP) topped March 7 deadlines.


The trouble is, the 80-year-old cleric is still refusing to speak
with Catholic- backed Sinn Fein, the political wing of former
paramilitaries the Irish Republican Army (IRA) who came second.


"Paisley is genuinely divided personally," Doctor Peter O'Connor,
a Northern Irish politics expert from the University of Ulster,
told AFP.


"He has a massive ego and would like to be first minister but
going down in history at the man who brought Sinn Fein into
government -- he chickens out at that point."


The British and Irish governments are pulling out all the stops
to secure a deal by next week to revive power-sharing between
Catholics and Protestants, which was suspended more than four
years ago over an alleged IRA spying row.


They want to restore self-rule in Belfast nearly a decade after
the 1998 Good Friday Agreeement, which ended three decades of
bloody Troubles between Catholics and Protestants.


But this month's elections to the Northern Irish Assembly didn't
help, emboldening the hardline parties from both communities at
the cost of moderates more likely to strike a power-sharing deal.


And despite the best efforts of London and Dublin, the province
scarcely seems nearer to a power-sharing deal on deadline.


Paisley said last week the signs were encouraging, though his
party scoffs at the deadline.


"I think we are making progress," he said. "I hope we will
succeed in what we are seeking to do. It will rest with the IRA
delivering, but I think we are seeing progress and I am
encouraged."


But Northern Ireland is at a tipping point: it has the chance
largely to run its own affairs, or see it the opportunity slip
away, leaving the province and the future of the peace process in
limbo.


Both London and Dublin are adamant: if there is no deal, the
Belfast assembly will be dissolved, and power retained
indefinitely in London.


In a bid to break the deadlock, Paisley and Sinn Fein president
Gerry Adams travelled to London last week to meet Prime Minister
Tony Blair, finance minister Gordon Brown and Northern Ireland
Secretary Peter Hain.


Adams said after Wednesday's talks with Blair and Brown: "They
can smell it: this could be the real breakthrough after all the
conflict, after all the false dawns."


If a deal is done, the most likely scenario would see Paisley
become first minister, with Sinn Fein chief negotiator and former
IRA commander Martin McGuinness as his deputy -- something
utterly unthinkable even a decade ago.


But the DUP want rock-solid assurances that Sinn Fein's about-
turn commitment January to support the forces of British law and
order will work in practice.


And Paisley's party, along with Sinn Fein, also demands from the
British government a comprehensive financial package for the
province to kick-start the economy and give the assembly some
muscle. The British government looks set to contribute up to one
billion pounds (two billion dollars, 1.5 billion euros).


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern insists that a deal on deadline
should be a "fait accompli," seeing no reason not to form a
power-sharing executive from the newly-elected 108 assembly.


But ultimately most people agree it comes down to whether Paisley
will agree to join power with Sinn Fein.


Paisley has spent a lifetime earning the nickname "Doctor No" for
his staunch resistance and doubts remain whether, strengthened by
a bigger mandate, he will finally become "Doctor Yes".


Asked if devolution could occur by March 26, Paisley said last
week: "I have done all I can do."

