

Wales, inspired by outstanding outside-half James Hook, ripped up
the Six Nations form book to clinch a pulsating 27-18 win over
England here on Saturday.


The victory salvaged some pride for the Welsh, who had lost all
four of their previous games. It was also the team's first win
over a top-10 ranked country under coach Gareth Jenkins.


Wales, as they did against France, scored two quick tries through
Hook and Chris Horsman, with Hook also landing four penalties, a
drop-goal and a conversion - to equal Neil Jenkins' record
against England for one match of 22 points.


England scored a brace of tries through Harry Ellis and Jason
Robinson, outside- half Toby Flood also nailing a penalty, one
conversion and a drop-goal.


Wales belied their standing as wooden spoon contenders with an
electric start that saw them play with urgency and pace that have
been distinctly lacking in the rest of their campaign.


The dream start was cemented after just three minutes, Hook
batting down a rushed clearance by opposite number Toby Flood and
touching down for a try he also converted.


The score could have been doubled four minutes later, but winger
Shane Williams spurned a three-man overlap just metres from the
English line.


Hook struck a 48-metre penalty with England pegged back and
struggling under the Welsh tide reminiscent of the style of play
that saw Wales win the Grand Slam in 2005.


Shane Williams made a clean break from a touchline ruck, laid the
ball back beautifully for Dwayne Peel to whip right, and Horsman
drove over at short-range from the resulting ruck.


England weathered the storm and it was centre Mike Catt who was
the instigator of the visitors' first score on the half-hour, the
veteran sidestepping Gareth Thomas into acres of space and
chipping over the covering Hook over the Welsh try line.


Although the bounce evaded Catt, Ellis was on hand to touch down
for a try Flood converted.


Flood was on the scoreboard soon after with an easy drop-goal
after a high tackle by Rhys Thomas had gifted the English
territory.


Hook responded with his second penalty but on the stroke of half-
time, England scored a crucial try, Ellis splitting the defence
and weaving from midfield to blind where Jason Robinson was on
hand to steam into the corner and give the visitors hope with the
scores at 18-15.


A break by the underused David Strettle saw England off to a
flying second-half, a straying Welsh hand at the ensuing ruck
penalised by Flood.


Wales countered and Shane Williams remained a thorn in England's
side although his final passing left a lot to be desired.


Full-back Kevin Morgan was also guilty of spurning a simple two-
on-one situation, Mark Jones on his outside and with the line at
his mercy.


Hook then saw one penalty attempt bounce back off the uprights,
but he landed his third after 64 minutes and followed that up
with a swiftly-taken drop-goal that saw Wales move out to a 24-18
lead.


With eight minutes remaining, Hook kicked his fourth penalty and
crucially moved his team out to a two-score margin.

