

The world's biggest airliner makes its US debut on Monday when
Airbus's A380 superjumbo touches down in New York and Los
Angeles, hoping to impress indifferent US airlines.


The 555-seat double-decker passenger plane will fly into Los
Angeles International and New York's Kennedy Airports in near-
simultaneous arrivals, as part of route-proving and compatibility
tests.


But although the twin arrivals are generating buzz among aviation
enthusiasts, with thousands of spectators reportedly expected to
turn out in Los Angeles, the reception from US carriers will
remain lukewarm, analysts say.


No US airline has placed an order for the superjumbo, which will
go into commercial use later this year after a tortuous
development period that has seen a string of delays and several
cancelled orders.


"It's a huge event in the sense that the A380 is the first of its
kind and it will be the first time it has been seen here," said
Stephen Costley, managing editor of Los Angeles-based aviation
journal SpeedNews. "But most of the interest will be from
aviation enthusiasts who want to see it fly."


Richard Aboulafia, a senior analyst with the Teal Group
Corporation, said the first arrival of the A380 was important
from a practical standpoint rather than a marketing one.


"It doesn't have an awful lot of relevance for the North American
market except in the sense of compatibility with North American
airports, in which it's crucial, especially LAX," Aboulafia told
AFP, referring to Los Angeles.


Aboulafia noted that the two biggest US carriers, Delta and
American Airlines, had shown no interest in placing orders for
the A380 so far, and still did not have Boeing 747s in their
fleet, currently the world's largest passenger jet.


"Not only do they have no interest, they don't even have 747s at
this point," he said. "Delta and American's biggest planes only
have 300 seats."        The US airline industry was only just
recovering from a protracted slump following the September 11,
2001 terror attacks and few airlines were willing to take the
plunge by placing billion dollar orders for the A380, he said.


The vast size of the plane, which has a wingspan almost the
length of a football pitch, was ill-suited to the routes favoured
by most US carriers, analysts said.


"The wave of the future is smaller longer-ranged aircraft," said
Aboulafia. "(Former American Airlines chairman) -- Bob Crandall
summed it up best when he said 'Nobody ever went bankrupt flying
a plane that had too few seats'."


Costley said although it was possible US carriers could be
adopting a "wait-and- see" approach to the A380, some had
indicated that the superjumbo would never find favor.


"I was at a US Airways meeting this week and the word I got from
there was that even though you never say never, you will never
see an A380 flying in their colors," Costley said.


However Costley said attitudes towards the A380 may change once
the superjumbo starts flying regularly into US airports by
international carriers. "In the long-term I expect it to be
successful," he said.


The two A380s touching down in the US on Monday will arrive from
Europe.


One plane carrying 500 guests will travel from Frankfurt to New
York to test commercial routes, while the other plane, carrying
only pilots and crew flies into Los Angeles, where it will test
airfield manoeuvring, docking at terminal gates, and ground
services such as refueling, an Airbus statement said.

