

Negotiators met Sunday on how to get North Korea's nuclear
disarmament accord under way ahead of new six-party talks, as the
United States said an ongoing cash dispute would not derail the
agreement.


The secretive North sent mixed messages Saturday on whether the
February 13 deal would go ahead as planned, again insisting that
25 million dollars of North Korean funds frozen by US sanctions
in Macau had to be released.


With the latest six-way talks to resume in Beijing on Monday,
amid high hopes that the on-off negotiations can make this latest
deal stick, US envoy Christopher Hill said he was confident the
financial dispute could be resolved.


"I think we have a pretty reasonable position that I think meets
everyone's interest," Hill told reporters in Beijing. "I'm pretty
confident it's not going to be a problem as we go forward."


The dispute over the money in Macau's Banco Delta Asia is the
latest stumbling block in years of negotiations aimed at getting
the Stalinist North, which tested the atom bomb last year, to
give up its nuclear programmes.


The US Treasury Department announced on Wednesday that it had
cleared the way for the release of funds in the bank, but it was
unclear whether that applied to all of the money.


North Korea's chief nuclear negotiator Kim Kye-Gwan said on
arrival here Saturday that Pyongyang would not close its nuclear
facilities until the United States released all the funds.


But South Korean envoy Chun Yung-woo said North Korea had
indicated in talks later that it had begun the preparations to
shut down its Yongbyon plant, one of the cornerstones of the
disarmament deal.


"It will be for the Macau authorities to decide what to do with
the funds, whether to release it or not," US Treasury official
Daniel Glaser said after talks Saturday in Macau, a southern
Chinese territory.


"We did conduct an investigation and hope our investigation will
be helpful to their determination," Glaser told reporters in Hong
Kong before heading to Beijing.


Glaser was to arrive in the Chinese capital later Sunday for
discussions on the financial issue before the resumption of full
six-way talks -- between the two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and
the United States -- on Monday.


"We've resolved the issue from our point of view and now we have
to explain it to everyone's satisfaction," Hill said.


The US imposed sanctions on Banco Delta Asia in 2005, suspecting
that it was laundering money for North Korea. The sanctions
contributed to North Korea abandoning an earlier disarmament
deal.


Lifting the sanctions was a key part of last month's deal, under
which the North would get badly needed energy aid and other
assistance in exchange for eventually shutting down its secretive
nuclear programmes.


Hill said he planned to meet with the North Korean delegation on
Sunday and with Kim himself on Monday, for talks that he expects
to focus on denuclearisation, not the bank issue.

