

The two largest US automakers, General Motors and Ford, saw their
sales slip in April as Toyota continued to rise and
DaimlerChrysler managed to regain some lost ground.


Planned reductions in low-margin fleet sales to rental car
companies contributed to the losses at GM and Ford, but those
cuts are hurting Ford more than GM because Ford's current product
line "is pretty anemic," said Rebecca Lindland, an analyst with
Global Insight.


"GM has taken out 83,000 units from their sales and when you
factor that back in their sales are just about flat because their
retail sales continue to be quite strong," she said.


"Ford on the other hand is continuing to struggle with their
combination of cutting back on fleet sales and they don't have
sales of the Ford Taurus anymore and that's really every month a
huge deficit that they need to overcome."


Executives at GM were quick to note that the fleet sales offset a
3.6 percent increase in dealership sales.


"April sales were consistent with the pattern of the last few
quarters -- retail sales up, daily rental down, and continued
strength of our launch vehicles," said Mark LaNeve, vice
president, GM North American sales, service and marketing.


"As we continue to execute our North American marketing plans,
we've seen positive results, including increased residual values
for our products."


Ford executives acknowledged that the results were disappointing
but said it was encouraged by strong sales of its new cross-over
sport-utility vehicles and expected good results from a new
advertising campaign.


"This was a challenging month. It fell short of our expectations
for our own sales and what the industry would do," said Ford
sales analyst George Pipas.


"On balance we believe we are making progress towards the
profitability of our business but there will be speed bumps along
the way."


The mixed results among automakers were compounded by the fact
that April had two fewer selling days compared with last year,
Lindland noted.


Some automakers report adjusted sales figures while others do not
adjust for differences in the number of sales days, which
Lindland said does not adequately reflect changes from the
previous year.


GM reported a 2.2 percent drop in sales at 311,687 vehicles while
Ford reported a 13 percent drop with 228,623 units sold. Adjusted
figures calculated by Autodata reduce those losses to 1.8 percent
at GM and 5.8 percent at Ford.


DaimlerChrysler, which reported a one percent increase in sales
at 213,999 units, actually gained 10 percent when its sales were
adjusted for the two fewer selling days.


"Chrysler did very well with more than 10 percent; Only
Mitsubishi did better but on significant lower volumes," Lindland
told AFP.


Asian automakers saw mixed results in April.


Toyota sales rose 3.7 percent to 210,457 units while Honda sales
slipped 1.6 percent to 126,419 vehicles and Nissan fell 11.1
percent to 71,124 units. Mitsubishi sales, meanwhile, jumped 20.4
percent to 12,047 units while Hyundai sales rose 3.3 percent to
39,137 vehicles.


In terms of market share, US automakers saw their piece of the
pie slip to 53.2 percent from 53.3 percent a year ago, according
to Autodata.


Asian automakers commanded 39.6 percent of the market, down from
39.7 percent last April, while European brands saw their share
rise to 7.2 percent of the market from 6.9 percent a year ago.

