

Manchester City bad-boy Joey Barton has been suspended by his
club for the rest of the season after hospitalising a team-mate.


Barton clashed with Ousmane Dabo during a training ground
incident, leaving the Frenchman needing medical treatment to his
mouth.


Manchester City admitted a player had been suspended but refused
to confirm his identity.


However, Barton's agent Willie McKay told the BBC: "As far as
I've heard, he was defending himself. But because it is Joey it
makes headlines.


"It happens on training grounds all over the country, from
Chelsea to Yeovil."


McKay was also the agent responsible for bringing Dabo to the
Premiership. The 30-year-old former France international joined
from Italians Lazio in June 2006 on a three-year deal.


City said: "We can confirm that a player has been suspended
pending an internal investigation."


Barton, 24, is an outspoken character having recently blasted
some England team- mates, including Chelsea's Frank Lampard, for
concentrating on their biographies rather than their performances
during last year's World Cup in Germany.


And his long-term City future could be in doubt if Eastlands
bosses finally lose patience with him.


Coming just five days before the Manchester derby, it is the last
thing City boss Stuart Pearce needed at the end of a largely
miserable season.


Only last week, Barton caused a minor sensation with an emotional
and outspoken attack on the way City was being run.


He heavily criticised some of City's new signings for failing to
produce the goods this season, attacked the lack of planning at
boardroom level and then claimed he would not have paid to watch
the Blues play if he had been a fan.


Amazingly, Barton escaped any sanction for his tirade, which
Pearce admitted was unhelpful. However, the latest problem is on
a far bigger scale and brings back instant reminders of
regrettable incidents that have dogged his past.


In 2004, Barton was fined a club record six weeks' wages for an
attack on team- mate Jamie Tandy. During the players' Christmas
party, Barton stubbed out a cigar in Tandy's eye, drawing
widespread condemnation from inside and outside the club.


Although the player vowed to change his ways, he ended up in more
trouble during City's pre-season tour of Thailand in the summer
of 2005. In a hotel bar in Bangkok, he physically attacked a
schoolboy Everton fan and had to be restrained by team-mate
Richard Dunne.


Barton was subsequently sent home in disgrace and fined eight
weeks' wages, with Pearce admitting at the time he was tempted to
allow the local police to take him away and throw him into
prison.


Having stood by him so publicly, Pearce then had the support
thrown back in his face at the end of the following January
transfer deadline when he slapped in a request to leave the club,
angered by what he perceived to be an insulting contract offer.


Barton eventually made his peace with the club and signed a four-
year contract last summer.


The midfielder has one England cap, having played against Spain
at Old Trafford in February.

