

The United States signed a defense pact Tuesday with Montenegro
that could open the way for the deployment of US forces to the
young Balkan republic -- a step likely to fuel tensions with
Russia.


The Status of Forces Agreement was signed by US Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice and Montenegrin President Filip Vujanovic,
who was making his first official visit to Washington since his
nation broke from Serbia and gained independence in 2006.


Rice said the agreement "establishes a basis for United States
military personnel to operate in Montenegro for mutually agreed
activities."


"Mr. President, we share your aspirations for a Euro-Atlantic
future for Montenegro and the United States and Montenegro are
working towards that goal," she said during a joint press
conference with Vujanovic.


The State Department revealed Monday that the two governments had
also signed last month a so-called "Article 98" agreement, a
controversial bilateral immunity deal that would shield US troops
and nationals stationed in Montenegro from possible prosecution
by the International Criminal Court (ICC).


The United States has signed Article 98 agreements with more than
100 countries despite questions about the international legality
of the pacts.


Vujanovic said he hoped the agreement with the United States
would enhance his country's image as a "safe environment" for
foreign investment.


Montenegro broke away from an alliance with Serbia following a
referendum vote for independence in May 2006.


The prospect of US troops deploying to the Balkan nation is
likely to add fuel to a growing dispute with Russia over the
expansion of NATO into former Soviet bloc countries in eastern
Europe and bilateral deals placing US forces in the region.


Russia President Vladimir Putin announced last week that Moscow
was suspending its compliance with a key East-West treaty on
conventional forces in Europe in protest at the moves and at US
plans to station anti-missile interceptor bases in Poland and the
Czech Republic.


Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov also lashed out at his
NATO counterparts over the alliance's expansion during a meeting
Thursday in Oslo.

