

Oil prices were higher in Asian trade Wednesday on concerns over
tight US gasoline supplies ahead of the summer driving season,
dealers said.


At 10:10 am (0210 GMT), New York's main contract, light sweet
crude for June delivery gained 16 cents to 64.56 US dollars a
barrel from its close of 64.40 dollars in late US trades Tuesday.


Brent North Sea crude for June delivery rose 30 cents to 67.30
dollars.


"I think the crude oil futures market remains underpinned by
concerns over US gasoline supplies and the market is looking
ahead of the inventory data out of the US," said Victor Shum, a
Singapore-based analyst with energy consultancy Purvin and Gertz.


"The general expectation is gasoline inventories will again show
a drawdown and that will remain the over-riding issue driving the
market," he said.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) is to release later Wednesday
its weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles and other oil
reserves in the world's largest oil consumer, traders said.


Figures from the DoE last week showed gasoline reserves fell 2.8
million barrels in the week ending April 20, against market
forecasts of a fall of just 500,000 barrels.


It was the 11th consecutive weekly drop in gasoline reserves.


"We have a situation in (gasoline) inventory that is the lowest
level we have seen in a number of years in the US," said Shum.


Traders are watching closely US gasoline supplies ahead of the
summer driving season starting at the end of May when many
Americans take to the road for their vacation.


Meanwhile, US crude oil inventories increased 2.1 million barrels
last week, which confounded analysts' forecasts for a decrease of
1.5 million barrels.


Aside from US gasoline stockpiles, traders are also concerned
over the latest kidnappings of foreigners in Nigeria, the the
world's sixth-biggest oil exporter with a daily output of about
2.6 million barrels.


Nigerian militants Tuesday seized four Italians, a US national
and a Croatian oil worker from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil-rich south and warned of further
kidnappings.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) claimed responsibility for
the attack, saying it was intended to shame the government of
outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is stepping down after
serving two terms.

