

A man who said he was hit by a police bullet fired during a May
Day protest in the southern Chinese territory of Macau was stable
in hospital Wednesday, government and media reports said.


The man said he was struck in the neck by a falling bullet when
police opened fire Tuesday afternoon as the protest by labour
unions suddenly turned violent.


Media reports in Macau, a former Portuguese enclave famed for its
glitzy casinos, and in nearby Hong Kong said doctors had to
remove a metal object from the man's lung after it hit him in the
neck and passed through his body.


A government statement said the man, aged in his fifties, had
been hit as he rode a motorcycle some 300 metres from where
police began shooting.


But officials said they had not yet been unable to verify if the
object was a police bullet and that they had launched an
investigation.


Live bullets were fired above the crowd of more than 1,000 as
protesters tried to break through police cordons during the
march, called to protest against labour shortages and illegal
immigration in the city of half a million.


The gunshots sparked chaotic scenes as some protesters tried to
flee but others pressed on in the hope of marching on downtown
government offices.


Riot police called in reinforcements and a five-hour stand off
began, punctuated by occasional clashes in which protesters
hurled water bottles and placards at officers.


Witnesses and TV news images detailed how protesters were pulled
from the crowd by their hair and others were beaten by police.
Reports said some police also used pepper spray to keep the angry
mob back.


A government statement said 900 police had been called in to to
ease the violence and that 21 of them had been injured in the
scuffles while 10 protesters had been arrested.


Organisers of the protest criticised the police reaction as
heavy-handed.


But the Macau government Wednesday said shooting above the crowd
was an "appropriate measure".


"Demonstrations should be carried out in a lawful manner and pose
no threats to normal social and economic activities, and to other
people's lawful rights," the statement read.


"The government stressed its determination to maintain the rule
of law and social order and any attempt to disrupt Macau's stable
development would not be tolerated," it added.


Marchers took to the streets in protest at what they say are poor
pay and conditions for local unskilled workers at a time when
Macau is experiencing double-digit economic growth.


They allege there has been a huge rise in the use of cheap
illegal labour, mostly from China and Philippines, which is
threatening jobs and conditions.


Macau's economy is booming thanks to a recent influx of mostly
American investment dollars into the city's gaming industry.

