

The United States reaffirmed on Tuesday its commitment to defend
Japan amid continuing uncertainty about the future of North
Korea's nuclear weapons drive and China's rapidly growing
military power.


"The United States has the will and the capability to meet the
full range of deterrence and security commitments to Japan," said
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice after a meeting here of the
two allies top diplomats and defense officials.


"Our meeting today demonstrates our commitment and our resolve to
ensure that this alliance doesn't just continue, but that it gets
stronger," Rice said.


The so-called "two-plus-two" meeting brought together Rice, her
Japanese counterpart Taro Aso, US Defense Secretary Robert Gates
and Defense Minister Fumio Kyuma for annual talks on bilateral
and regional security issues.


Since the grouping last met in May 2006, North Korea rattled
regional security concerns by testing its first nuclear weapon
and long-range ballistic missiles and China reaffirmed its
growing military might by using a missile to knock a satellite
out of space.


At a joint press conference, Aso said these events underscored
the "uncertainty and instability" facing Japan and he welcomed
Washington's renewed pledge to defend and provide "deterrence"
for his country -- diplomatic shorthand for placing the island
nation under the US nuclear umbrella.


North Korea pledged in a February 13 agreement with the US,
Japan, China, South Korea and Russia, to give up its nuclear
weapons program in exchange for political and economic
incentives.


But Pyongyang missed an April 14 deadline to shut and seal its
main nuclear reactor due to a dispute over some 25 million
dollars blocked in a Macau bank by US financial sanctions.


Rice reaffirmed Tuesday that Washington had lifted its objections
to the return of the money, but acknowledged that unexpected
technical complications had so far prevented the North Koreans
from accessing their accounts, in turn delaying the reactor
shutdown.


"So we have been willing to step back and give some time for this
to be resolved," she said, but added: "We don't have endless
patience."


"We do recognize that North Korea has continued to publicly
affirm its obligation under the February 13th agreement and to
affirm its intention to carry through.  We expect them to do so,"
she said.


Tuesday's meeting also included what Aso called a "frank
exchange" about a year- old agreement to draw down US forces
stationed in Japan, a delicate issue at a time when Tokyo is
moving to boost its own military forces and global profile.


Aso said the Japanese side hoped to "further advance the
realignment of US forces in japan by giving it a push at the
political level".


Under a realignment "road map" agreed a year ago, Washington was
to return some bases to Japanese control while some 8,000 US
marines are to redeploy from Okinawa to Guam by 2014, with the
bulk of the 10 billion dollar cost borne by the Japanese.


There are more than 30,000 US military personnel currently
stationed in Japan.


The four ministers also said they discussed pursuing joint
missile defense programs, notably to counter the North Korean
threat, and to building strategic regional security ties,
including with Australia.

