

The small southern Indian seaside town of Pondichery, a former
French colony with 7,000 eligible voters, used to be a bastion of
France's right.


But for the first time a socialist candidate has come out ahead
in the town's choice for a new French president, another sign
that right-wing candidate Nicolas Sarkozy is hard to digest for
non-white French.


In the first round of voting on April 22, the socialist Segolene
Royal emerged with just over 36 percent of the vote against 34
percent for Sarkozy -- even though he is seen as the rightful
heir to French "Gaullism," to which many in Pondichery attach
themselves.


The territory, nestled in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, and
French soil until just 53 years ago, was among the first to rally
to Charles de Gaulle's 1940 call for resistance against Germany.


The town is also still packed with reminders of its heritage --
police in kepi hats, French street names and a statue of Joan of
Arc, a symbol used by the right wing.


But "it's anyone except Sarkozy," explained Claude Marius, editor
of the local French language Trait-d'Union newspaper. Even
thousands of kilometres (miles) away in India, he said, "Sarkozy
scares people."


The problem is Sarkozy's tougher stance on issues such as
immigration, appealing to some in France but not in former
colonies such as Pondichery.


A new immigration law pushed through last year by Sarkozy as
interior minister, aimed at steering the country towards a policy
of a more selective intake, did not go down well in the
territory.


"In India most of the marriages are arranged," said Marius,
explaining that ethnic Tamils from Pondichery residing in France
like to "return home to take an Indian wife."


But he said the French consulate in Pondichery now views such
unions as marriages of convenience, refusing to issue the
necessary paperwork for newlyweds to live together in France.


"People are saying 'don't vote for Sarkozy, because he'll stop
your children from getting married and your families won't get
any visas anymore,'" he said.


The local Socialist Party official, Manuel Velangany, said he has
been campaigning on this issue by "warning voters who are
planning future marriages."


Socialists have also been campaigning on other local issues such
as increased benefits for veterans.


The French of Pondichery have also been delving into issues of
national identity.


While some voters in the coastal town said they saw Sarkozy as
the only one capable of upholding France's position in the world,
others are not so convinced.


"With Sarkozy, we're scared of being considered as Tamil
foreigners even though we are a part of a multicultural France,"
said Marie-Joelle Primoguet, a teacher.


Still, the view of France as a country in decline does ring a
bell in southern India.


"We are far away from France, but people sense the disarray, the
decline of France," said Albert Rollin, a newspaper boss.

