

Australian Prime Minister John Howard on Wednesday strongly
defended President George W. Bush's veto of a law setting out a
timeline for withdrawing US troops from Iraq.


Howard, an ardent supporter of Bush and a key ally in the four-
year-old US-led war in Iraq, said that pulling out troops too
early would cause chaos in the already violence-ridden country.


"As part of the coalition of the willing, my attitude ... is
clearly the same attitude President Bush has taken," Howard told
Australia's Sky Television.


"If the coalition pulls out before the Iraqis are able to look
after themselves then Iraq will be plunged into deeper chaos than
they are experiencing at the present time," he said.


On Tuesday, exactly four years after declaring the end of major
combat in Iraq, Bush used his presidential veto to kill
legislation passed by the Democrat- controlled congress that
would have pulled troops out of Iraq.


The bill linked the allocation of emergency funding for US troops
in Iraq to a plan for US combat troops to start coming home by
October 1, and for most of them to be withdrawn by March 2008.


The showdown with congress set the scene for a reinvigorated
battle between the administration and supporters of the war on
one side, and anti-war forces keen on ending US involvement in
the conflict.


Howard said the only suitable way to decide when to withdraw
troops was by evaluating security conditions on the ground in
Iraq.


"Withdrawal of American, and indeed Australian forces, should not
be according to a pre-determined timetable," Howard said. It
should be according to the conditions that prevail in the
country.


"It is not helpful for me, or the president, or the American
administration to be setting a timetable, rather .... (it) should
be conditions-based, as conditions improve then it will become
possible to look at these things.


"But until they have improved it is entirely premature ... and I
therefore support what President Bush has said and done."


Australia has about 1,400 troops in and around Iraq.


Howard, who faces re-election later this year, has conceded that
his war policy is unpopular at home but insists he will not be
swayed as he believes it to be right.

