

A lawyer fleeing Australian child sex allegations will be sworn
in as the Solomon Islands attorney-general next week, the
Solomons government said Wednesday.


The decision to swear in Julian Moti is likely to reopen a long-
running rift with Australia, which tried to extradite Moti -- an
Australian citizen -- from Papua New Guinea in October last year
on child sex charges.


Moti evaded extradition proceedings when he was flown from Papua
New Guinea to the Solomon Islands on a secret PNG military flight
in defiance of Canberra's wishes.


The Solomon Islands prime minister's office said Wednesday that
Moti would take up his delayed appointment because Australia had
failed to prove its charges against him.


"They (Australia) have had ample time to prove their case but
have not presented anything to the government," the prime
minister's press secretary Deli Oso said.


Oso said a public service ban against Moti taking up the job
because of the Australian charges would be lifted ahead of a
swearing-in ceremony.


Earlier in the week, the Solomons opposition leader Fred Fono
called on the government to return Moti to Australia.


Fono said Moti's presence in the country was a stumbling block to
a return to normal diplomatic relations with Australia.


But Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare accused Fono Wednesday of
using "megaphone politics" to try to unseat the government.


Sogavare said a legal team would be in Canberra at the weekend to
meet with Australian authorities to attempt to resolve the
impasse.


Relations between the Solomons and Australia, which heads a
regional assistance mission in the Solomon Islands, became
strained last year when Sogavare expelled the Australian
ambassador for allegedly meddling in local politics.


Relations appeared to improve recently with Australia taking a
leading role in international relief efforts following last
month's earthquake and tsunami.


The disaster killed at least 52 and displaced up to 7,000 in the
west of the South Pacific archipelago.

