

When Filipinos go to the polls on May 14 all eyes will be on the
Senate, which is being seen as a contest between President Gloria
Arroyo and her deposed predecessor Joseph "Erap" Estrada,
analysts say.


Estrada, who has been detained for the past six years on charges
of massive corruption, has never forgiven Arroyo for the part she
played in unseating him in 2001.


"As far as most Filipinos are concerned, this election is a proxy
fight between Gloria and Erap," said newspaper columnist William
Esposo.


"The damaged reputation of Estrada prevents the opposition from
claiming a moral high ground against the equally sinful regime of
Gloria Arroyo," he said recently, adding Filipinos are being
forced to choose between the lesser of two evils.


At stake on May 14 are 12 seats in the 24-member Senate, all 230
seats in the House of Representatives and thousands of local and
provincial government positions. But it is the Senate where the
main political battle is being fought.


Senators in the Philippines are elected by the nation as a whole
and the results are seen as being indicative of the national
mood.


In contrast, the House of Representatives is elected by
provincial districts, where local issues and local leaders are
more influential.


Arroyo's handpicked Senate ticket "Team Unity" (TU) is facing off
against the "Genuine Opposition" (GO) slate backed by Estrada.


"This is a referendum really on Gloria Arroyo," said GO
senatorial candidate Panfilo Lacson, who served as Estrada's
special police chief.


"So it isn't surprising that in all surveys, the opposition has a
huge lead," said Lacson.


Recent opinion polls show the opposition is set to capture about
eight of the 12 Senate seats.


"If you look at the public statements, Arroyo is the focus of
Team Unity candidates while in the opposition, the ghost of
Estrada is still very strong," Roman Catholic Bishop Deogracias
Yniguez, chairman of the public affairs committee of the
country's influential Bishops Conference, said recently.


GO television advertisements do not trumpet the virtues of their
candidates. Instead, they accuse the Arroyo administration of
corruption and abetting poverty and extra-judicial killings.


Another advertisement focuses on Estrada, not the senatorial
candidates. The deposed leader calls on the public: "Let us
revolt against corruption and poverty."


In contrast, the administration's television advertisements
showcase the whole TU senatorial slate, vowing to uplift the
country. The commercials boast of the economic achievements of
the Arroyo administration.


GO spokesman Adel Tamano says Estrada remains a key figure in the
opposition.


The former action movie star still provides advice to the
opposition even though he is under house arrest while awaiting a
verdict on charges that he stole 80 million dollars during his 30
months in office.


"It shows the respect (for him) and the influence he still
carries," Tamano said.


Many of the country's poor still see Estrada as the movie hero he
played on screen and barely recall the anomalies that caused his
downfall.


Estrada convinced his best friend, Fernando Poe, the country's
top movie star, to run against Arroyo in the May, 2004
presidential elections despite Poe's inexperience and known
distaste for politics.


Arroyo was declared winner by a narrow margin. Poe died of
natural causes in December, 2004.


But in 2005, the Estrada-led opposition released audiotapes
allegedly showing Arroyo conspiring with an election official to
cheat her way to victory in the 2004 polls.


Arroyo has apologised for speaking to the official before the
votes had been fully tallied but she denies any wrongdoing. The
opposition has twice tried to have her impeached for election
fraud, only to be shot down in the House of Representatives,
which is controlled by Arroyo allies.


Arroyo cabinet members are confident her administration will
retain control of the House but it is in the Senate where the
opposition stands the best chance of gaining ground.


TU campaign manager Reli German charged the Estrada-led
candidates are focused entirely on dragging down Arroyo and have
no plans for the country.


"They have nothing in mind but impeachment, its all about
impeachment. I say, don't be a stumbling block to our progress
now," German told a recent forum.


TU spokesman Tamano shot back: "We (at GO) are just purveyors of
truth... and unfortunately the truth hurts."


Arroyo has said the superior machinery of the administration
coalition will turn the tide in the race for the 12 Senate seats
but the opposition says this is just another sign Arroyo plans to
cheat in the May 14 polls.


"Machinery always translates to cheating. it is not too subtle.
When we hear machinery, the more we become concerned about our
votes," said Lacson.


Regardless of the outcome of the May elections, the battle
between Arroyo and Estrada will be far from over.

