

Over the past decade, the Asian film industry has set the
standard for the horror genre -- and now more Asian-inspired hits
are on the way to cinemas around the world.


With Hollywood remakes of "The Ring" and "The Grudge" both
clocking more than 100 million US dollars in ticket sales,
studios have their sights firmly on the region as they search for
the next box-office winner.


The next 12 months will see the Hollywood version of the Oxide
and Danny Pang- directed Hong Kong shocker "The Eye", among
others, as re-make rights are being snapped up almost as soon as
the originals hit the screen.


"We make these films for our people. But it is also why they seem
more original to people from overseas," says Thailand's Genwaii
Thongdenok, who produced the local hit "13-Beloved".


"In Thailand, and in Asia, horror films are about more than just
ghosts. They are often about things we think are real," says
Genwaii, who has seen the remake rights to his hit bought up by
the powerful Weinstein Company.


The future of the horror genre was one of the topics under heavy
discussion at last week's ninth edition of the Far East Film
Festival in the Italian city of Udine.


Asian horror films have long been a staple of the 10-day
festival, and the event's "Horror Day" again proved to be an
enormous success -- with hardly a seat to spare.


This year featured films from Japan ("The Slit-Mouthed Woman"),
Thailand ("13-Beloved", "The Unseeable", "Dorm"), South Korea
("Roommates"), the Philippines ("Sukob") and Malaysia
("Chermin").


"For filmmakers, we get a big buzz over watching our films play
outside the market they were made for," says actress Siraphan
Wattanajinda, who stars in "The Unseeable".


"These films are not made for an international audience but it is
great for us to come here and see that an international audience
can appreciate them."


The breadth of ideas in the Asian horror tradition is certainly
one reason why the genre, more than any other, has been able to
cross the cultural divide.


And from the pure, haunted-house horror of "Sukob" -- the most
successful Philippine film of all time -- to the bizarre child
abuse tale of "The Slit- Mouthed Woman", that full breadth was on
show in Udine.


"We try to throw many things into our films," says Genwaii.
"There is no real formula as we have to appeal to as many people
in our audience as possible."


The nature of the horror genre enables filmmakers them to test
themselves with a wide range of techniques.


"The Malaysian film industry is quite new and quite small. The
government provides assistance to us but the product has to be
commercial and horror films are commercial," says Zarina
Abdullah, the director of "Chermin".


"There is a new horror film coming out every two weeks in
Malaysia. So young filmmakers can find backing for their
projects, plus you are able to try different things, explore new
ideas rather than just doing drama or a love story."


Some filmmakers are even using the shock genre to focus on wider
social issues -- as as South Korea's Kim Eun-kyung does in
"Roommates", which looks at the effect severe discipline has on
young students.


"The film is called horror but this type of film can say more,"
says Kim.


"I wanted to show how bad these schools can be -- and there are
some still South Korea. The horror film can reflect on things we
see as being wrong in our societies, using real characters in
situations regular people can appreciate."


Stephen Cremin, programme coordinator for the festival, says the
impact of such films in Hollywood goes well beyond just re-makes
of Asia's box-office smashes.


"For a while, the West saw things like 'The Ring' that had themes
and a psychological bent that hadn't been seen in the West
before," he says.


"Now you see films like (Hollywood's) 'Saw' pushing those
boundaries even further. For a while Asia was cutting edge,
breaking boundaries and doing new things. Now the Americans are
fighting back."

