

Mali's opposition vowed Tuesday to challenge a weekend election
which appears to have handed a new five-year mandate to incumbent
President Amadou Toumani Toure.


"We will take appeal to the constitutional court to have the
cancellation and re-run of this election," Soumeylou Boubeye
Maiga, one of the candidates fielded by a leading opposition
coalition, said.


"The conditions under which the elections took place render the
results null and void," he asserted, claiming that the poll was
marred by fraud.


Toure, a 58-year-old former general who is unaffiliated but
enjoys the backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small
parties, is seen as leading in a count of ballots from Sunday's
election.


"Our candidate has more than 70 percent of the votes in about 60
percent of the polling stations in the country, that outcome is
undisputable," Mountaga Tall, one of the leaders of coalition
backing Toure, the Alliance for Democracy and Progress (ADP),
said.


Toure's spokesman Hassan Barry on Monday claimed the president
had won a second term.


Full official election results are expected Wednesday or
Thursday.


Observers from the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and OIF, the organisation of French speaking countries,
have cleared the vote as being overall fair and clean, despite
isolated incidents of concern.


But the opposition Front for Democracy and the Republic (FDR), a
coalition of 16 parties which fielded four candidates, including
ex-prime minister Ibrahim Keita, has dismissed the entire vote as
a sham.


It cited multiple voting and intimidation of voters, unserialised
ballot papers bearing no serial numbers or security watermarks.


"Intimidations, open threats, tampering with figures -- all was
done to ensure Toure's reelection," claimed Keita.


The opposition coalition has walked out on the voter validation
process after being prevented from validating results in the
capital.


A spokesman for the group, Djiguiba Keita, told AFP that the
coalition's pull- out was final because results from six
districts of the capital Bamako were "released without our final
authorisation".


Those results showed Toure ahead of his Ibrahim Keita,
confounding pre-election predictions.


The opposition assertions tarnished the political consensus the
vast west African country long praised for its democracy, has
enjoyed for the past 15 years.


Toure, who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in 1991, installed a
multi-party system before stepping aside in 1992. He later stood
for presidential elections and won easily in 2002.


A total of eight candidates had been vying for the top job in one
of Africa's most impoverished countries.

