

Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko has sacked two
constitutional court judges, his office announced Tuesday, as the
power struggle between him and his Moscow-backed prime minister
intensified.


The two judges were fired by decrees signed Monday and Tuesday
"for having violated their oath," the presidency's website said.


Pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych and his allies --
Socialist Olexander Moroz and Communist Petro Simonenko --
denounced Yushchenko's "anti- constitutional revolt" for "trying
to paralyse the court" in an address to the international
community quoted by Interfax-Ukraine.


"The president's actions become dangerous for the state," they
added, calling on the international community to send "mediators"
to Ukraine.


The 18-seat constitutional court is the ultimate deciding body
for the political crisis that has gripped Ukraine since the pro-
Western president dissolved its parliament by decree on April 2
and ordered early legislative elections.


Yanukovych has resisted the decree, locking the two camps into a
bitter tussle that has led to almost daily demonstrations by
thousands of their supporters.


Yanukovych is supported by a parliamentary majority, which on
Monday passed a non-binding vote to have an early presidential
election happen at the same time as the legislative ones --
something Yushchenko has ruled out before the end of his current
five-year term in 2011.


Of the court's judges, a third is appointed by the president, a
third by the parliament and a third by a council of Ukrainian
judges. Of those 18, 12 have to be present at sessions to supply
a necessary quorum, and 10 at least are required to make a
decision.


According to Ukrainian experts, the president moved to block
those judges that were not loyal to him.


"The president also blocked judges that worked against him. He
can now consider illegitimate any court decision that would not
be in his favor," politologist Volodymyr Fesenko of the Penta
center said.


"These (dismissal) decrees will not be recognised either by the
judges or by the coalition which will appeal," he predicted.


"The president renounced the possibility of settling the problem
by legal means," independent analyst Volodymyr Malinkovich said.

