

Rafael Benitez has hailed Liverpool's Champions League triumph
over Chelsea as even sweeter than their defeat of the Londoners
at the same, semi-final stage two years ago.


Two penalty saves from Jose Reina in the decisive shoot-out sent
Benitez's men into their second final in three years and, given
how little love there is between him and Chelsea boss Jose
Mourinho, there was no disguising the Spaniard's glee.


"Maybe it was better than when we beat Chelsea in 2005 and I am
really, really proud of my players," said Benitez, who has never
made any secret of his irritation with Mourinho's consistent
carping over the "ghost" Luis Garcia goal which gave Liverpool a
controversial win two years ago.


This time around, Chelsea could have no complaints. After Daniel
Agger's first- half goal levelled the tie at 1-1 on aggregate,
Liverpool enjoyed the better of the chances before Reina set the
stage for victory with superb penalty saves from Arjen Robben and
Geremi.


That was enough to give Dirk Kuyt the chance to send Liverpool to
Athens after Bolo Zenden, Xabi Alonso and Steven Gerrard had
placed their side's first three spot-kicks past Petr Cech.


Despite the acrimony between him and Mourinho, Benitez
acknowledged that the battle had been closely fought and Chelsea
will regret failing to make more of the opportunities they had in
last week's first leg at Stamford Bridge.


"They are a very good side with some good players and at times it
was difficult to control them," Benitez admitted. "They had a lot
of free-kicks but we defended really well and worked so hard all
through the game.


"Our supporters were fantastic and the atmosphere was amazing and
we are going to enjoy this victory. Pepe Reina was fantastic in
the penalty shoot-out and he is an expert when it comes to that."


While Reina's heroics set Liverpool up for either a final rematch
with either AC Milan, the side they famously beat on penalties in
Istanbul two years ago, or Manchester United, Chelsea's season is
rapidly disintegrating around them.


Having slipped to four points behind United in the Premiership,
it now looks as if their last chance of adding to their League
Cup win this season will come in next month's FA Cup final
against Sir Alex Ferguson's side.


Chelsea fans must also wonder whether their dream of capturing
club football's biggest prize will ever be realised after
watching their side lose out at the semi-final stage for the
third time in four years.


Mourinho's mood will not have been helped by post-match
suggestions from the Liverpool players that his comments in the
build-up to Tuesday's encounter had put a little extra fire in
their bellies.


"That's Jose for you - he's been a credit to English football, he
makes us laugh now and then," said Steven Gerrard. "I think he
was a bit disrespectful calling us a little club. Two finals in
three years - not bad for a little club."


Mourinho denied that he had been anything but respectful to
Liverpool and, equally implausibly, insisted that his side had
had the better of the second leg despite struggling to cope with
the physical toll imposed by chasing silverware on four fronts.


"It is a moment when everybody has to be strong," said the
Portuguese coach, whose side could concede their league title to
United if they fail to beat Arsenal on Sunday.


"My players have a lot of reasons to be proud. They did a great
run in the Champions League and even against a team with only the
Champions League to play for, we were the best team."


Having started with a five-man midfield and the apparent
intention to stifle Liverpool out of the competition, Mourinho
was forced into a rethink when an uncharacteristic lapse in
Chelsea's defensive discipline gifted the home side the
opportunity to level the aggregate scores after Joe Cole brought
Gerrard down on the left of the box.


Cole was fortunate to be spared a booking but his team did not
escape punishment.


Preoccupied by the aerial threat posed by Peter Crouch and Dirk
Kuyt hanging around the far post, nobody in a blue shirt appeared
to have noticed Agger making his way to the edge of the area.


Gerrard did and his square pass was met with the sweetest of
left-foot shots from the Danish defender, the low, first-time
strike denying Cech the time to get back across his goal before
the ball had nestled in the back of the net.


Drogba fired a good chance to equalise straight at Reina ten
minutes later but Liverpool enjoyed the better opportunities from
then on, with Kuyt coming closest with a header that clattered
against the bar on the hour mark.


Drogba put another chance over the bar with a quarter of an hour
of regulation time remaining but only Cech's speed off the line
denied Kuyt in extra-time. The Dutch striker also had an effort
ruled off for offside but his tireless running was finally
rewarded when he converted the penalty that put Liverpool on the
plane to Athens.

