

Sidney Crosby, the youngest player to win a National Hockey
League scoring title, will go up against two goaltenders for the
Most Valuable Player award.


The league announced on Tuesday that the 19-year-old centre of
the Pittsburgh Penguins is a finalist for the Hart Trophy along
with Martin Brodeur of the New Jersey Devils and Roberto Luongo
of the Vancouver Canucks.


The three finalists for seven other awards, including the Vezina
Trophy (goaltender) and Norris Trophy (rookie), also were
announced on Tuesday.


Along with winning the Art Ross Trophy as scoring champion with
120 points (36 goals, 84 assists), Crosby helped the Penguins
improve by 47 points in the standings.


Brodeur set a single-season record for goaltenders with 48 wins
and led the league with 12 shutouts.


Brodeur and Luongo are also finalists for the Vezina Trophy.
Acquired by Vancouver last June, Luongo set a club record with 47
wins as the Canucks captured the Northwest Division title.


For the first time, there are more than the three traditional
finalists for the Vezina Trophy due to a third-place tie in
balloting.


Miikka Kiprusoff of the Calgary Flames and Henrik Lundqvist of
the New York Rangers are the other finalists for the Vezina
Trophy.


Nicklas Lidstrom of the Detroit Red Wings is seeking his fifth
Norris Trophy as the league's top defenceman.


The other candidates for the Norris Trophy are teammates Scott
Niedermayer and Chris Pronger of the Anaheim Ducks.


Two members of the Pittsburgh Penguins - centre Evgeni Malkin and
right wing Jordan Staal - were nominated as finalists for the
Calder Trophy Award as the NHL's outstanding rookie. Centre Paul
Stastny of the Colorado Avalanche, who set a rookie record with a
20-game scoring streak, is the other finalist.


Lindy Ruff has a chance to repeat as the Jack Adams Award winner,
honoring the Coach of the Year. Ruff guided the Sabres to a
53-22-7 record and the first Presidents' Trophy in franchise
history.


Pavel Datsyuk of the Red Wings, Joe Sakic of the Avalanche and
Martin St. Louis of the Lightning are finalists for the Lady Byng
Trophy, which honours sportsmanship and gentlemanly conduct.


The winners will be announced June 14 in Toronto.

