

Jose Reina sent Liverpool into the Champions League final at
Chelsea's expense with two saves in a nerve-tingling penalty
shoot-out at Anfield on Tuesday.


Reina's saves from Arjen Robben and Geremi were enough to give
Dirk Kuyt the chance to send Liverpool to Athens after Bolo
Zenden, Xabi Alonso and Steven Gerrard had placed their side's
first three spot-kicks past Petr Cech.


Daniel Agger's well-taken goal, mid-way through the first half,
had given Liverpool a 1-0 victory on the night and levelled the
aggregate scores at 1-1.


As in the first leg, settled by Joe Cole's goal, it was the home
side that enjoyed the better of the chances here, but as a
contest it was always tight enough to make a penalty climax
highly likely.


Jose Mourinho, who saw his side beaten by Liverpool at the same
stage two years ago, had been accurate in his pre-match
prediction that, with Ricardo Carvalho missing from Chelsea's
defence, Peter Crouch would start in a Liverpool side aiming to
repeat the aerial assault that yielded a 2-0 victory in the
Premiership earlier this year.


More surprising was the decision of Rafael Benitez to dispense
with the services of Xabi Alonso in a midfield reshuffle that saw
Steven Gerrard restored to a central role and Jermaine Pennant
asked to patrol the right flank.


With Salomon Kalou operating in a five-man Chelsea midfield,
Mourinho appeared to have decided that cutting off the supply to
Crouch at source represented his side's best chance of preserving
their first-leg advantage.


The stifling tactics worked efficiently enough at the outset. But
a rethink was enforced when an uncharacteristic lapse in
Chelsea's defensive discipline gifted the home side the
opportunity to level the aggregate scores after Gerrard was
chopped down on the left of the box.


Cole was fortunate to be spared a booking that would have ruled
him out of the final but his team were not to escape punishment
for his ill-timed challenge.


Preoccupied by the threat posed by Crouch and Dirk Kuyt hanging
around the far post, nobody in a blue shirt appeared to have
noticed Agger making his way to the edge of the area.


Gerrard did and his square pass was met with the sweetest of
left-foot shots from the Danish defender, the low, first-time
strike denying Petr Cech the time to get back across his goal
before the ball had nestled in the back of the net.


The delirious jubilation that followed, remarkable even by
Anfield's exceptional standards, spoke volumes about the
intensity of the rivalry that now exists between these two clubs.


The celebrations might have been cut short ten minutes later when
a stray pass from Javier Mascherano allowed Kalou to play Didier
Drogba into the box.


From 15 yards, Africa's player of the year opted for power when
placement might have served him better and Jose Reina was able to
make a block that was important, but straightfoward for a
goalkeeper of his quality.


Liverpool had another let-off five minutes before the interval,
when Michael Essien was unable to find the target from beyond the
back post after Drogba had headed on Frank Lampard's corner.


With the added stimulus of attacking the Kop end, the home side
began to generate openings from open play at the start of the
second half.


Pennant's cross allowed Crouch to produce his first effort on
target, a back- post header that Cech needed two attempts to
gather, shortly before Kuyt sent John Arne Riise's delivery
clattering against the bar.


Increasingly effective before being forced off injured, Pennant
was also unfortunate to see his 71st-minute shot deflected over
the bar by Essien's outstretched leg.


The best of the second-half chances fell to Chelsea however,
Drogba contriving to lift Ashley Cole's cut-back over the bar
from close range with a quarter of an hour left.


Liverpool were denied again in the first period of extra-time
when Cech's speed off his line allowed him to thwart Kuyt, sent
clear by the inexhaustible Mascherano.


The Czech goalkeeper then had to dive to his right to keep out
substitute Alonso's fierce drive and although Kuyt turned in the
rebound, he had strayed into an offside position.


Two minutes from penalties, the Dutch forward saw another chance
blocked by Geremi. But ultimately his tireless efforts were to
get their reward.

