

British Prime Minister Tony Blair gave his most explicit backing
yet Tuesday for Chancellor Gordon Brown to be his successor, and
said he will soon give a date for his departure after 10 years in
power.


Blair, who has long refused to publicly endorse his ally-turned-
foe Brown to take over from him in 10 Downing Street, said the
finance minister would make a "great prime minister".


"Within the next few weeks, I won't be prime minister of this
country," Blair said in Edinburgh, 10 years to the day since the
1997 general election that saw his Labour Party swept to power.


But in his strongest hint yet that Brown will take over, he
added: "In all probability, a Scot will become prime minister of
the United Kingdom.


And in a clear reference to Brown he said: "That's someone who
has built one of the strongest economies in the world and who
I've always said will make a great prime minister."


As to his depature Blair told Britain's GMTV breakfast programme:
"I will make my position clear next week. I will say something
definitive then."


For his part, Brown was also in conciliatory mood, using a
newspaper column to heap praise on his "oldest friend in
politics".


But he brushed aside talk of his imminent promotion as he opened
a new school in northern England. Instead, he said he was
concentrating on campaigning for Thursday's municipal council
elections.


Blair and Brown shared an office when they first became lawmakers
in 1983 and were behind key reforms to the faction-riven Labour
party that made it an electable proposition.


But their relationship has soured since, particularly over
Brown's perception that Blair reneged on a deal to hand over
power to him after a second term of office.


Supporters of Brown, allegedly with his blessing, mounted a
"mini-coup" last September amid heightened tensions within Labour
over Blair's foreign policy, forcing the 53-year-old premier to
say he would be gone within a year.


Blair has so far refused to name the exact date but political
observers have said they see May 9 or 10 as the day he will bow
out.


Power-sharing government between Catholics and Protestants in
Northern Ireland resumes the day before. Brokering the peace
between the two sides has been seen as one of Blair's greatest
achievements.


Blair's official spokesman dropped a clear hint Tuesday that an
announcement would come immediately afterwards.


"Northern Ireland will be a big day and I think everyone
recognises that," he said.


"And certainly in terms of our approach it has always been that
we want to mark the occasion and mark the occasion properly but
also let people focus on the achievement of the politicians there
and not distract from that in anyway."


Blair and Brown's comments appeared to give the impression of
party unity within Labour, which has been split along Blair-Brown
lines since the former became party leader in 1994.


Brown's article in The Sun tabloid appeared under the headline
"10/10 Blair's decade of achievement" and reflected on the prime
minister's decade in power at home and abroad.


"I am honoured to call Tony my oldest friend in politics, of
course with the inevitable ups and downs along the way, but still
the longest partnership between prime minister and chancellor for
200 years," he said.


Returning the compliment, Blair hailed Brown's prudent
stewardship of the British economy in the last decade.


"I have always said about him that he would make a great prime
minister and I believe that," he told GMTV.


In Britain, the prime minister is the leader of the largest party
in the lower House of Commons and a fresh general election does
not have to be called if he or she resigns.


His announcement would trigger an internal election lasting seven
weeks, meaning a decision on a new leader could be known on June
30 or July 1.


Nearly three quarters -- 73 percent -- of voters want a general
election, however, should the successor to Blair simply take over
as prime minister, according to a poll released on Tuesday.


The CommunicateResearch poll of 1,001 adults also found that a
majority of Labour voters, 52 percent, wanted a general election
to be called in a scenario where a new prime minister took over.

