

Waving the US flag and shouting slogans, the huddled masses of
America's immigrant labor force stepped out of the shadows on
Tuesday to demand their place in the sun.


From Los Angeles to New York, hundreds of thousands took to the
streets in peaceful demonstrations, calling for an overhaul of
immigration reforms, a pathway to citizenship and a piece of the
American dream.


One of the largest rallies was in Chicago, where police put the
size of the demonstration at around 150,000, while organizers
claimed one million protestors marched through the heart of the
city waving US flags, wearing white T-shirts and chanting "si se
puede" (yes we can).


A steady stream of protestors poured into Grant Park, where
children who had been taken out of school played tag in the grass
while their parents listed to speakers under sunny skies.


Francisco Bear, 60, came to Chicago in 1968 and worked illegally
at a hotel overlooking the baseball field where he sat with his
wife, Irma, on Tuesday.


Bear, who eventually gained citizenship and now runs his own
business leasing trucks, was in Chicago for the riots following
the 1968 assassination of Martin Luther King. He sees these
protests as a new civil rights movement.


"I think it's going to work -- it's going to change hearts," he
said.


Yeseria Ariza, 20, needs the protest to work. Her family came to
the United States illegally a few months after she was born and
still has been able to gained legal status.


She managed to register for university without a social security
number but has no access to student loans, financial aid or
scholarships and has been working full time to pay her fees.


"I want to become an educational psychologist but I've been
thinking about it -- I might be done in four years but am I going
to be able to work?" she said as she marched with her mother who
carried a sign that read "stop breaking kid's hearts."


"I feel American -- I've been here most of my life. It's really
unjust."


In Detroit, Michigan, Rosalie Delagarza Johnstone said she was
marching for past, present and future generations of immigrants.


"We're here for my late father who was an illegal," said
Johnstone, a Detroit- born Mexican-American who attended the
rally with her 18-year-old son, David, who skipped school to
participate.


"He was deported, then fought his way back here to make a better
life for me and my brothers and sisters. He joined the Army and
could have died, would have died, to help us.


"I'm sure many others here want to give their children the same
opportunities."


Michigan is home to around 150,000 of the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the United States.


In Los Angeles, Mexican farm worker Roberto Espinoza was among
8-10,000 marchers calling for an end to hardline immigration
policies.


"Stop the raids, stop broken families ... progress not
suppression and deportation!" said placards carried by the 40
-year-old.


Estela Diaz, who has spent 10 years as an illegal immigrant in
California, told AFP: "We want full rights for all immigrants, we
need the amnesty."


"All we are asking is for a clear path to become citizens," said
Jose Machuca, a 37-year-old janitor who moved to Los Angeles from
El Salvador five years ago.


"This country does not understand how hard we work and what we
really do," Machuca said while carrying an American flag outside
City Hall. "We just want to contribute and feed our families."


In New York, downtown Manhattan's Union Square became a sea of
color, with the US Stars and Stripes mingling with flags from
Honduras, Mexico, El Salvador and Ecuador.


Live bands, including one offering a reggae rendition of "Don't
want Your Homeland Security" helped give the event a carnival-
like atmosphere under mostly blue skies and unseasonably warm
temperatures.


Protestors from Bangladesh and China mingled with those from the
Philippines and Venezuela while vendors sold flags and snacks and
the crowds blew whistles and chanted: "Here we are and here we'll
stay."

