

Tax authorities have conducted an audit of the South Korean
operations of US investment bank Goldman Sachs, the company said
Wednesday.


The firm said its business in South Korea faced a "routine" tax
audit but refused to confirm media reports that the National Tax
Service (NTS) is looking in particular at its investment in
Jinro, a major distiller.


Goldman Sachs' Seoul branch sold Jinro in 2005 to Hite Brewery
for 3.4 trillion won (3.7 billion dollars), reaping more than one
trillion won in investment profits, Yonhap news agency reported.


It had been the main creditor to Jinro since acquiring its
distressed debt at a steep discount in 1998.


The investment bank only paid taxes on part of the profits,
saying that an Ireland-based affiliate, Senna Investment, was in
charge of the deal. South Korea has a double taxation prevention
treaty with Ireland.


Goldman Sachs insisted it has acted properly in South Korea.


"We are dedicated to complying fully with the letter and spirit
of the laws, rules and ethical principles that govern us," said
Christopher Jun, executive director of its branch in Seoul, in a
statement.


"During our close cooperation with the NTS, there has been no
evidence that would suggest we have failed to meet this
standard."


He said newspaper articles "which refer to a NTS tax
investigation of Goldman Sachs unfortunately mischaracterise what
is a routine tax audit of the firm's businesses in Korea."


A law which went into force in 2005 makes it easier to tax gains
made by foreign investors following resentment over big profits
they made by buying into struggling Korean companies in the
aftermath of the 1997 Asia financial crisis.


In a separate case, US fund Lone Star took over Korea Exchange
Bank (KEB) by buying a controlling stake for some 1.5 billion
dollars in 2003.


However, it cancelled a 7.4 billion dollar deal to sell KEB to
Kookmin Bank last November amid legal investigations into alleged
share manipulation and other offences.


The Dallas-based US fund denies wrongdoing and says the cases
against it are driven by latent hostility to foreign investors.

