

Osasuna and Espanyol would not have been on anyone's list, apart
from their most optimistic supporters, to line-up in the UEFA Cup
final but on Thursday they can defy their sceptics and ensure
they will do just that.


Osasuna look to have the toughest task as they take a slender 1-0
lead over holders and Spanish rivals Sevilla to Seville while
Espanyol - so long in the shadow of city neighbours Barcelona -
travel to German title contenders Werder Bremen holding a near-
unassailable 3-0 lead.


There might be a massive 24 points between Sevilla and Osasuna in
the Spanish league table but the hosts' impressive Danish
midfielder Christian Poulsen is not planning on booking his
ticket to Glasgow for the final yet.


Indeed the 27-year-old suffered semi-final gloom last year when
his side at the time Schalke 04 lost 1-0 on aggregate
to....Sevilla.


"I simply don't want to lose a UEFA Cup semi-final two years in
succession," he told UEFA.com.


"It's a big motivation, believe me."


Poulsen knows that it is essential Sevilla don't get intimidated
by Osasuna's physical approach to the game though, to be fair to
the visitors, they showed a lot of flair when they disposed of
Bayer Leverkusen 3-0 in their quarter-final first leg clash in
Germany.


"I think the key will be imposing our style of football at our
own stadium.


"They are a physical team that plays a different brand of
football to ours. It (the first leg) was very physical.


"I think our main disappointment is that we didn't get an away
goal but I am still holding on to the dream of going to the
final."


If Werder Bremen needed an historical precedent to encourage them
after their dismal performance in the first leg then it is that
Espanyol also held a 3-0 lead over Bayer Leverkusen in the 1988
final but then lost 3-0 in the second leg - when it was played
over two legs - and subsequently on penalties.


No-one is more aware of that than Espanyol's scorer of their
third goal last week, Ferran Corominas.


"Some of my team-mates told me that I shouldn't have scored that
goal," he said.


"It sets up a possible repeat of that final all those years ago
but this is an experienced side so let's hope we don't let the
same thing happen this time."


Werder may have had their minds distracted by the present
speculation surrounding their star striker Miroslav Klose - with
a 15 million euros move to Bayern Munich being bandied around -
but their general manager and former German international striker
Klaus Allofs hasn't given up the ghost yet.


"It's not over yet and we have to take the game to Espanyol and
play with the bit between our teeth," said Allofs.


"There is no point sitting back, we must attack from first
whistle to last."


Spanish newspaper Marca may have written 'It smells like an all-
Spanish final' but there have been enough amazing comebacks in
European football to say that there may yet be another twist in
the tournament.

