

President George W. Bush was set to veto a bill including a
Congress-mandated Iraq withdrawal timeline within hours Tuesday,
exactly four years after declaring the end of major combat
operations.


White House officials said Bush would wield only his second veto
in six years and make a public statement at 6:10 pm (2210 GMT),
defying calls by Democratic leaders to "listen to the American
people" and end the bloody war.


Sharpening a constitutional clash for control of the Iraq war,
House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority
Leader Harry Reid formally sent the bill to the White House after
weeks of fierce debate.


"With the benchmarks to hold the Iraqi government accountable,
this legislation respects the wishes of the American people to
end the Iraq war," Pelosi said as she signed a bill agreed by
both chambers.


Reid added: "We renew our call to President Bush. There is still
time to listen to the American people. There is still time to
sign this bill and change course in Iraq."


The bill makes 124 billion dollars of military funding
conditional on pulling most troops out of Iraq by March 2008.


But Bush was determined to veto an Iraq withdrawal timeline four
years after he declared the war "one victory" over terrorism on a
US aircraft carrier under a giant "Mission Accomplished" banner.


Bush, pleading for patience with his unpopular decision to send
more US troops to Iraq, earlier warned at the US Central Command
headquarters in Florida that a hasty withdrawal would turn Iraq
into "a cauldron of chaos."


"Our enemy -- the enemies of freedom -- love chaos. Out of that
chaos they could find new safe havens," he said. "Failure in Iraq
should be unacceptable to the civilized world. The risks are
enormous."


But he did not directly refer to his political game of chicken
with his Democratic foes, who seek to bring home most of the
roughly 150,000 US troops now in Iraq starting in October.


The White House expressed anger that the Democrats timed their
efforts to send Bush the legislation on the anniversary of his
May 1, 2003 speech.


That was when Bush strode in a flight suit aboard the USS Abraham
Lincoln aircraft carrier, where he trumpeted the fall of Baghdad
and declared that "major combat operations in Iraq have ended."


"The battle of Iraq is one victory in a war on terror that began
on September the 11, 2001," with the attacks on New York and
Washington, Bush declared, a giant "Mission Accomplished" banner
hanging behind him.


When he spoke, just 139 US soldiers had been killed since the US-
led invasion launched in March 2003. But more than 3,000 have
died in Iraq since then, and April has been the bloodiest month
of 2007 with 104 killed.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters that the
timing "is a trumped-up political stunt that is the height of
cynicism and it's very disturbing."


But Pelosi said she had signed the bill and sent it to the White
House at the first opportunity, as Democratic presidential
hopefuls pounded Bush over his Iraq strategy.


"We are now one signature away from ending this war," Senator
Barack Obama said in a statement, urging Bush to "avoid making
another tragic mistake by signing the bill that will end this war
and bring our troops home."


"All the photo ops in the world can't hide the truth - his
disastrous mismanagement of the war has left our troops in harm's
way and made Iraq a breeding ground for terrorists," said former
senator John Edwards.


"When Bush vetoes the bill, Congress should send him another bill
with a timetable for withdrawal and if he vetoes that one,
Congress should send him another and another until we end this
war and bring our troops home," he added.


Senator Hillary Clinton branded Bush's 2003 speech "one of the
most shameful episodes in American history."


"America is ready for a president who will respect our armed
forces by properly planning for the missions we ask our troops to
undertake. America is ready to end this war and when I am
president, that's exactly what I'll do," she said.


It was unclear what would follow the veto -- Bush's only other
one rejecting legislation expanding embryonic stem cell research
-- because Democrats lack the votes to override the president.


Bush has said he wants to work with Democrats to get much-needed
monies to the US military, but has not publicly signaled that he
is ready to compromise. He plans to meet top lawmakers on
Wednesday.

