

An unusual tactic is being used in the Scottish election
campaign: four parties are pushing an issue over which the
partially-devolved parliament in Edinburgh has no control:
nuclear weapons.


The Scottish National Party (SNP), the Scottish Socialist Party
(SSP), its break-away rivals Solidarity and the Green Party all
want to get rid of Britain's Trident missile nuclear deterrent.


The governing Labour Party, which wants the ageing Trident system
renewed, dismisses the tactic as "irresponsible", reminding
people that defence is a matter solely for the British parliament
in London.


But that matters little among the brightly-painted caravans of
the Faslane Peace Camp, which was set up in 1982 near the naval
base on the River Clyde estuary where the nuclear submarines that
carry the missiles are housed.


"Trident will be my top priority in deciding who I vote for on
May 3," says Jane Tallents, who lived at the site 34 miles (55
kilometres) from the western city of Glasgow between 1984 and
1990.


For Tallents, who's now co-ordinating a daily, year-round protest
at the base, and Angie Zelter, a veteran activist who's been
based at the camp for seven months, lawmakers in Edinburgh could
still have a say.


The Scottish Parliament's powers include environmental policy,
roads and the Scottish legal system. The Greens say they will
pass laws to prevent weapons of mass destruction being
transported on Scottish roads and inshore waters.


The SNP wants a "Trident toll" of one million pounds (1.5 million
euros, two million dollars) per warhead brought into Scotland and
would spend the money on schools and hospitals.


Sitting at her solar-powered laptop computer in a caravan near
the cherry tree planted by survivors of the Hiroshima atomic bomb
attack in 1945, Zelter says the parties have impressed her.


"Trident missiles can't distinguish between military and civilian
targets, therefore they're illegal," she says.


"There's an argument to say, yes, it's fine to reserve matters of
lawful defence to Westminster, but if there's disagreement about
their legality then it's a different matter.


"You can't enforce a group of people into complicity in a war
crime."


Analysts see opposition to Trident -- and Prime Minister Tony
Blair's desire to revive Britain's nuclear power programme -- as
a way of courting left-wing voters and disaffected supporters of
centre-left Labour.


It has also tapped into other UK-wide issues, including
opposition to the Iraq war and allegations that Labour illegally
offered wealthy donors seats in Britain's unelected upper chamber
of parliament, the House of Lords.


But for Labour's Jackie Baillie, who's hoping for re-election in
the local Dumbarton constituency, the parties and the
campaigners' direct action at the base are threatening
livelihoods and disrupting daily life.


About 6,500 people are employed behind the razor wire at Faslane
with a further 500 at Coleport around the loch, where the nuclear
installations are housed, she says.


A further 4,000 people work in the supply chain and local
industry, while much of the 250 million pounds the base receives
each year is spent locally.


"The removal of the base would be catastrophic in most of the
local economy," she told AFP.


"My concern is if you remove Trident it has a knock-on effect on
the business and the consequences for the local economy are
11,000 jobs."


Welding firms, shops and coach hire companies -- even the aptly-
named Trident taxi firm and Commodore hotel in nearby Helensburgh
-- would be hit hard, "devastating" one of the poorest areas in
western Scotland, she says.

