

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice travels Tuesday for a
series of meetings on Iraq, ready to open a long-awaited but
"firm" dialogue with the previously taboo regimes in Iran and
Syria.


Struggling to gain some diplomatic momentum in a Middle East
roiling with crisis, Rice is widely expected to break with the US
administration's boycott of Tehran and Damascus during the talks.


The meetings Thursday and Friday at the Egyptian Red Sea resort
of Sharm el- Sheikh -- one between Iraqi donors aimed at slashing
Baghdad's foreign debt and boosting reconstruction efforts, and a
second on security -- will involve all Iraq's neighbors.


Also included are representatives of the five permanent UN
Security Council members, the United Nations, the European Union,
Canada, Germany and Japan.


President George W. Bush said Tuesday that the conference will be
"an important test" of whether Iran and Syria are "truly
interested in playing a constructive role in Iraq."


All eyes will be on Rice at the event to see if she finally takes
the leap and meets directly with her Iranian counterpart,
Manouchehr Mottaki, for the highest level substantive discussion
between the two nations since Washington broke off relations with
Tehran in 1980 over the embassy hostage crisis.


Rice "would be polite but firm" if she encounters Mottaki,
"reminding the representative of the Iranian government that
there is a better way forward for the Iranian people," Bush said
Monday.


However, Iran on Tuesday ruled out engaging in a "dialogue" with
Rice at the Iraqi security conference, saying the time was not
right for negotiations.


"For the moment the conditions do not exist for such a dialogue,"
Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mehdi Mostafavi said.


"The United States cannot have this hostile attitude and say on
the other hand that they are favorable to negotiations," he told
the ISNA news agency.


Washington says Tehran is trying to develop nuclear weapons,
supports anti-US and sectarian violence in Iraq, and backs
violent extremists in Lebanon and among the Palestinians.


US officials have insisted that any US-Iran discussions at Sharm
el-Sheikh will be strictly limited to Iraq-related issues,
leaving the thorniest issue of Tehran's nuclear program for a
separate, multilateral negotiating track.


The United States has also not ruled out a meeting between Rice
and her Syrian counterpart, Walid Muallem, who said in an
interview with Lebanon's ANB television aired late Sunday that he
was willing to see her in Sharm el-Sheikh.


"The Americans have not made such a request, but if Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice wishes, then we can meet," Muallem said.


The United States accuses Damascus of letting anti-US insurgents
cross from Syria into Iraq, and of supporting terrorist groups in
Lebanon and in the Palestinian territories.


After the Iraq conference, Rice will attend a meeting Friday on
the Israeli- Palestinian issue that will likely include a Syrian
representative at the Egyptian resort.


The Arab League is to present a peace plan to the Middle East
diplomatic Quartet -- the European Union, the United Nations, the
United States and Russia -- at the "informal" meeting, said State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


Egypt and Jordan will also participate, and "I believe the Saudis
and the Syrians will be there as well," he said.


The latest US government report on terrorism, issued Monday,
ranked Iran and Syria as the two top "state sponsors of
terrorism."


Yet the Bush administration has been under intense pressure to
engage directly with both governments in order to help stabilize
Iraq and end the costly US occupation.

