

Violent clashes marred huge May Day rallies around the world
Tuesday with more than 700 protesters arrested in the worst riots
in Istanbul, as Fidel Castro failed to show up for Cuba's
celebrations.


As other South American presidents marched at the heads of large
rallies, Castro disappointed many supporters when he stayed away
from Havana's annual May Day which would have been his first
public appearance since undergoing major surgery nine months ago.


The fact that he failed to attend Cuba's rally for only the third
time in 48 years in power -- the other two being when he was out
of the country -- fuelled further speculation about the state of
the 80-year-old leader's health.


Around the world in a show of global solidarity, workers marched
through towns and cities calling for better pay and conditions,
and highlighting social and political inequities.


But in many places tensions and political divisions spilled over
into clashes with police.


The worst violence was in Istanbul, where police fired shots in
the air and used tear gas and water cannons to disperse left-wing
demonstrators intent on holding a banned rally in one of the
city's central squares.


More than 700 people, including almost 200 women, were detained,
according to police, as tensions run high in Turkey between the
army and government over a disputed presidential election.


In South America, leftwing presidents marched at the heads of
large rallies in an unprecedented show of support for their
countries' labour forces.


Ecuador's President Rafael Correa, a leftwing economist, led a
large demonstration in Quito, and railed against the power of
foreign multinationals in his country where unemployment has
soared to 10.3 percent.


"We are being exploited by the wealthy multinationals. They are
on the lookout for the country which gives them the greatest
benefit and the best returns for their capital. This has to end,"
he told thousands of protestors.


In Nicaragua, Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega, who returned to
power at the beginning of the year, also led a march of young
civil servants, students and poor people, many of whom had
travelled in from the provinces to join the Managua protest.


Violence flared in Chile, when police arrested a dozen people at
a rally of about 10,000 people after clashes broke out.


There were clashes too in other parts of the world, as in rare
scenes of civil unrest in the southern Chinese enclave of Macau,
police fired warning shots after a crowd of more than 1,000 broke
through police cordons.


Some 120 people were arrested in clashes in Berlin between
demonstrators and police, while neo-Nazis and counter-protesters
faced off across the country.


Anarchist groups and far-right groups also seized on the day to
provoke trouble in the Czech Republic, with police saying they
had arrested dozens of people.


Meanwhile, history was made in the southern South Korean city of
Changwon, when 2,000 workers, including 60 from North Korea,
waved "unification flags" during a special rally to call for the
reunification of the Korean peninsula.


It was the first time since the 1950-1953 Korean War that North
Korean workers had visited South Korea for the annual labour
festival.


Several hundred Iranians took to the streets of Tehran to demand
better working conditions, while in one of the biggest rallies
100,000 Italian union activists marched in Turin.


In Manila, riot police fanned out as 5,000 people waving red
banners with the communist gold hammer and sickle were blocked
from marching on the palace of Philippines President Gloria
Arroyo demanding her resignation.


In Thailand, about 10,000 workers marched through the centre of
the capital, Bangkok, railing against the military-backed
government which took power after a coup last September and
demanding an immediate return to democracy.


Tens of thousands of people across Russia called for higher
salaries and pensions in demonstrations that for the most part
carefully avoided criticism of the Kremlin.


For some there was cause to celebrate though. Some two million
people were due to dance until midnight in Rio at special May Day
festivals and concerts.


Kenya and Burundi were also given Labour Day gifts with their
presidents using the occasion to make generous offers.


Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki promised free education in public
secondary schools starting next year, while Burundi President
Pierre Nkurunziza awarded government workers a 34-percent pay
rise.

