

When fourteen-year-old Viola Naburime finished primary education,
she left her dreams of becoming a lawyer at the school gates, as
her mother told her she could not afford to pay for further
studies.


But a recently-introduced pilot project by the Ugandan government
to provide free secondary education for all has allowed Viola to
return to the classroom.


Almost 180,000 children have signed up to the project in more
than 1,000 pilot schools aross the country with some 10,000
teachers, according to a head count released by the Ugandan
government at the end of April, one month after the scheme began.


The largest enrolment was recorded in urban schools, according to
Education Minister Namirembe Bitamazire.


In Saint Denis Ssebugwawo Secondary School near the capital
Kampala, Viola smiled as she sat in a classroom of around fifty
pupils, wearing a uniform of a white blouse and bright yellow
skirt.


"My mother found it extremely difficult to pay for my education
because my father died," Viola told AFP. "But now I can read on
until I become a lawyer."


However, although many pupils are happy, some parents and
teachers are wary of the project, citing fears that a serious
lack of funding will effect its ability to function.


Uganda is the first East African country to offer free secondary
school education, after 10 years of free universal primary
education.


But many see the primary programme, known as the Universal
Primary Education (UPE) scheme, as a failure due to
underinvestment.


Some primary classes hold up to 100 students and teachers
complain that low wages force them to seek second jobs in order
to earn enough to live, therefore devoting less time to the
classroom.


The average salary of a state school teacher is around 234
dollars (172 euros) per month.


The government says the primary school programme was a success
because it increased pupil numbers from around 2.5 million to
more than seven million, but critics say it produced poor
standards of education.


Many fear that this is likely to be a problem in the secondary
education programme too.


"I'd rather fork out the money and pay the school fees instead of
subjecting my child to that programme that may end up like the
Universal Primary Education scheme," Justus Kisembo, parent of a
pupil at a private secondary school, told AFP.


"UPE suffered so badly that some schools failed to even buy
simple things like chalk," said teacher Josephine Mugerwa.


The deputy head teacher at Saint Denis, Francis Ssali, admitted
that the funding per child in his secondary school was very low.


"Only 27 thousand shillings (around 16 US dollars) is allocated
per child per term, which is very small," Ssali said.


But the government has promised to provide textbooks and other
teaching materials, as well as to build more classrooms, he said,
adding that his school has yet to benefit.


"We are trying to see that problems that were faced under the UPE
are not replicated, the education minister said.


Uganda's education budget is around 17 percent of the national
budget of 2.4 billion dollars, with 41 percent financed by donor
countries, according to Aggry Kibenge, the spokesman of the
education ministry.


Meanwhile some say the government should also provide lunches and
uniforms for poor pupils at the free secondary schools.


"Many cannot afford lunch and spend the whole day on empty
stomach," said Jacob Mukasa, a teacher in a pilot school. "The
majority are very poor and some are not in uniforms but we cannot
send them back."


Others, like Viola's mother Lilian Wani, see the new programme,
set to expand in the coming years, as a "godsend".

