

Japan is set to mark the 60th anniversary of its pacifist
constitution Thursday amid protests and heated debate about plans
for a revision to reflect its growing influence on the world
stage.


Six decades after the constitution came into force on May 3, 1947
-- imposed by US occupiers after World War II -- Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe is seeking to rewrite the text as part of his vision
of a more assertive Japan.


Supporters and opponents alike are preparing rallies to mark this
year's Constitution Day, reflecting the divisive nature of the
plans of Abe, Japan's first premier born after World War II.


A group of conservative lawmakers, academics and journalists will
hold a forum in Tokyo to discuss how the constitution should be
changed, and plan to propose a broad outline for a new text.


Opponents meanwhile are organising a parade through the Ginza
shopping district to air their fears.


"We believe the movement to change the constitution is based on a
wish to scrap Article Nine," said a spokeswoman for Citizens
Opposed to Constitutional Revision, which is co-organising
Thursday's parade.


"We cannot let that happen," she added.


A new poll released Wednesday showed the majority of Japanese
voters feel it is time to revise the pacifist post-war
constitution, but still support Article Nine, which renounces the
right to maintain a military or even use of the threat of force
as a means of settling international disputes.


Liberals argue that such a move would take Japan a step closer
toward engaging in armed conflicts.


The current constitution bars Japan from using or even
threatening to use force as a way to settle international
disputes, although the country skirts the rule by calling its
troops "Self-Defence Forces."


Parliament is set to pass legislation on rules for a national
referendum on rewriting the constitution -- a move that would be
likely to anger Asian neighbours who suffered under Japan's
wartime aggression.


But Japan is far from an actual revision of its constitution as
such a project would require approval from two-thirds of
lawmakers before a draft goes to a public referendum.


Japan, which relies on the United States for much of its national
security, has been gradually boosting its military might and in
March deployed its first ballistic missile defence system amid
growing concern about North Korea.


Japan's most high-profile mission was to send troops to Iraq on a
reconstruction mission although its forces were protected by
soldiers from allied nations and returned home last year without
firing a single shot.


Heated debate remains, even among members of the ruling party, as
to how far to deviate from Japan's absolute pacifism.


"Under the constitution, troops from our country have never
stolen the life of a single person in any other country. This
path of peace is an achievement we can be proud of," Yohei Kono,
speaker of the House of Representatives, said in a recent speech.

