

A demand by China, India and Brazil that rich nations accept they
are mainly responsible for global warming has held up progress at
a key UN climate change conference here, delegates said
Wednesday.


The three nations' insistence since the talks started on Monday
that the developed world recognise their dominant role in climate
change has stolen precious time meant for debate on how best to
tackle global warming, they said.


"Progress is slow," one delegate from a European nation, who
asked not to be identified, told AFP.


"Brazil, India and China are trying to put on the shoulders of
industrialised nations the historic responsibility for greenhouse
gas emissions, in order to clear their own emissions (of blame)
and to protect themselves in any discussion."


At least 400 scientists and experts from about 120 countries are
attending the week-long third session of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the UN's leading authority on
global warming.


Their report, expected to be released at the end of their meeting
on Friday, aims to lay out ways to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and prevent a climate catastrophe without seriously
hurting the global economy.


But China has also insisted on specific figures, which lay the
blame for global warming on rich nations, be inserted into the
conclusions, according to documents obtained by AFP.


Developed countries should formally recognise they were
responsible for 95 percent of greenhouse gas emissions from the
pre-industrial era to 1950, and for 77 percent from 1950 to 2000,
according to China's submission to the IPCC.


China also rejected phrasing that places the onus on the entire
world to deal with climate change, instead urging the focus to be
on rich nations where per capita emissions of greenhouse gases
are far higher than in poorer countries.


"If the countries with high per capita emissions do not reduce
their emissions significantly, it will be difficult to make
substantial global progresses in GHG (greenhouse gas)
mitigation," China's submission said.


One of the French delegates, Renaud Crassous, said China was
proving to be a dominant force in this week's talks, while others
said the United States was remaining low key.


"China is distrustful regarding everything that could draw a
conclusion that it is easy to reduce emissions," Crassous said.


Various delegates contacted by AFP said the demands, made by
China but backed by India and Brazil, were not relevant to this
week's meeting because it was meant to specifically look at ways
to mitigate climate change.


"This is not the point of this meeting. We are meant to be
looking to the future," the European delegate who did not want to
be named said.


Another delegate from the West, who also asked not to be
identified, said the positions put forward by China, India and
Brazil were part of a long-term negotiating strategy by the
world's three most powerful developing nations.


They want to set the stage for other major international
political events this year, such as the G8 leaders' summit in
June in Germany, where climate change is certain to be one of the
hot topics of discussion.


The United Nations is also holding a climate change conference in
Bali in December, and the big three of the developing world want
to make sure the focus is on rich nations to take the leading
role in tackling global warming, the delegate from the West said.


Although the amount of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases
emitted per person by developing countries is far lower than rich
nations, their total output is rising fast.


This is mainly due to their dependence on greenhouse gas-
producing fossil fuels for driving economic growth.


China will overtake the United States as the world's biggest
emitter of greenhouse gases sometime before 2010, according to
the International Energy Agency.

