

The Iraqi government and its tribal allies were scouring
dangerous territory Wednesday for evidence to prove their claims
that Al-Qaeda's Iraq chief had been killed in a clash between
armed factions.


Brigadier General Abdel Karim Khalaf, the interior ministry's
operations director, admitted Iraq has still not acquired any
body or human remains to back up intelligence reports that Abu
Ayyub al-Masri is dead.


"So far we don't yet have it, but there are efforts underway to
look for the body," said Khalaf, whose claim 24 hours earlier
that Masri had been killed was scorned by Al-Qaeda and treated
with caution by his US allies.


A coalition of Sunni tribes that has vowed to defeat Al-Qaeda has
claimed responsibility for Masri's alleged death, claiming that
they tracked him to an area just north of Baghdad on Tuesday and
killed him in a dawn ambush.


"We have evidence and eyewitnesses and our contacts with the
tribes there all confirm the killing," said Hamid al-Hayis, head
of the Anbar Salvation Council, the armed wing of the Anbar
Awakening, an alliance of sheikhs.


Hayis said finding proof of the deaths of Masri and a small group
of fellow Al- Qaeda militants was proving difficult, because the
orchards and villages of the Nibae area near Taji are still
partly controlled by insurgents.


"The area is still under their control, early this morning we
sent an armed group to scout the situation, but we haven't heard
back from them yet," he told AFP, in a telephone interview.


According to US commanders, Masri -- who is said to be a veteran
Egyptian jihadi and car bomb expert -- took control of Al-Qaeda's
Iraqi franchise in June last year after the death of his
predecessor Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.


Since then, he has been reported killed or wounded several times,
and Tuesday's new report has been greeted with caution by the US
military.


"I am still not aware of any evidence or presentation of remains
or anything like that," US spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Chris
Garver told AFP. "We are conducting dialogue with our Iraqi
counterparts."


Al-Qaeda scornfully dismissed the claim in an Internet message.


Any confirmation of Masri's death would be a welcome piece of
good news for Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government, which
this week is due to host a conference of world powers and Iraq's
neighbours in Egypt.


The beleaguered government will ask both the permanent members of
the UN Security Council and its neighbours -- especially Iran and
Syria -- for more political support and assistance in choking off
funds for militants.


Maliki's main foreign ally, US President George W. Bush, is
fighting political battles of his own on the domestic front,
where there is mounting pressure for him to set a date to begin
to bring American troops home.


On Tuesday, Bush vetoed a bill sent by the Democrat controlled
Congress which would have tied funding for the military to a
withdrawal timetable.


"Members of the House and Senate passed a bill that substitutes
the opinions of politicians for the judgment of our military
commanders. So, a few minutes ago, I vetoed the bill," Bush said
in Washington.


"Setting a deadline for withdrawal is setting a date for failure,
and that would be irresponsible," he said as protesters outside
the White House chanted "Stop the war now!" and "How many more
will die?"


Bush had long pledged to defy Congress by rejecting the bill,
which was to allocate 124 billion dollars (91 billion euros) in
emergency funding for US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.


The measure linked the funds to a call for US combat troops to
start coming home by October 1, and for most of them to be
withdrawn by March 2008.


Iraqi and American troops are engaged in a massive security
operation in and around the Iraqi capital in a bid to quell
sectarian fighting between Sunni and Shiite factions long enough
to allow Maliki to start governing.


The US commander in Iraq, General David Petraeus, has promised to
present a review of the results of this so-called "surge" in
September, and has warned that the operation will take months to
complete.

