

The concept of opposition has yet to take root in South Africa 13
years after the birth of multi-racial democracy, says the
outgoing leader of the main opposition Democratic Alliance.


Tony Leon's main task in eight years as official opposition
leader was "to get the very concept itself accepted on the stony
soil of South African ground".


"It is a very misunderstood concept in South Africa and on the
continent," he added in an interview with AFP.


Leon, who has been branded elitist and racist by sections of the
ruling African National Congress (ANC) for his vociferous
opposition on issues such as crime, affirmative action and AIDS,
believes South Africa's government shares a contempt for the
opposition with that of neighbouring Zimbabwe.


Even though South Africa enjoyed free speech and political
campaigning, elements of Mugabe's style of government could creep
in, said Leon, 50, whose successor will be chosen at a party
conference this weekend.


"There are intimations. I don't think at the moment our
government is threatened at the polls nationally like (Zimbabwean
President Robert) Mugabe is. One hopes that when they are ...
that they will behave not like Mugabe."


In Zimbabwe, a crackdown recently saw opposition leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and other members of the Movement for Democratic
Change beaten and detained by security forces.


It would be foolish, Leon said, to dismiss warnings about the
"Zanufication" of South Africa, referring to Zimbabwe's ruling
ZANU-PF.


A particular cause for concern was last year's failed attempt by
the ANC- governed Western Cape province to grab power from the
DA-led municipality of Cape Town by changing the city's
governance system.


Such attempts would intensify, Leon predicted, as the ANC
believed it had a "God-given right to rule everything,
everywhere".


Much of the ANC's opposition intolerance should be blamed on
President Thabo Mbeki, said Leon.


His predecessor, Nelson Mandela, "used to introduce me to the
pope or the queen and say: 'this is the man who gives me all the
trouble', and then he would slap me on the back and laugh.


"(Mbeki) has never been as comfortable with open discourse and
public debate, or private debate for that matter."


Mbeki and Leon had a strained relationship. They never had an
official private meeting in their relative roles as president and
leader of the opposition.


Leon expressed concern that a grouping pursuing African
nationalism in the ANC was gaining the upper hand.


"There is a contradiction between the national democratic
revolution promoting an African agenda on the one hand and non-
racial, democratic inclusiveness on the other."


The contradictions were apparent in the public service where
demands for racial transformation were given precedence over
service delivery.


More than a million whites have left the country since 1994, many
taking scarce skills with them.


Leon -- whose style earned him the nickname "chihuahua -- has led
the DA since 2000, and its predecessor, the Democratic Party,
from 1994.


Leon believes the DA managed to build an effective opposition
after the end of apartheid in 1994, despite its limited black
support.


Under his watch, the party grew from the fifth largest in
parliament, with seven MPs, to the main opposition with 57 MPs
and 1,100 councillors.


However it is still dwarfed by the ANC which won almost 70
percent of votes at the 2004 general election against 12 percent
for the DA.


Leon, a lawyer by training, is writing a book about his political
career but has yet to decide on his long-term future. He will
remain an MP until 2009.


"I have got very mixed feelings (about resigning) because so much
of my life has gone into building this party," he said.


"But if you truly believe and have faith in what you do you must
know when to let go."

