

Werder Bremen's general manager Klaus Allofs insisted on Tuesday
all is not lost despite his side going into Thursday's UEFA Cup
semi-final second-leg against Espanyol with a 3-0 deficit to a
make up.


Bremen lost last week's first-leg as goals from Moises Hurtado,
Walter Pandiani and Ferran Corominas saw the Spanish take control
with one local paper running the headline "Nearly in Glasgow"
refering to the May 16 final in Scotland.


But Bremen have an impressive forward line and Allofs insists his
side must attack from the first whistle in Thursday night's clash
at the Weserstadion.


"That was a bitter defeat which makes life hard for us in the
return leg," he said.


"But it's not over yet and we have to take the game to Espanyol
and play with the bit between our teeth, there is no point
sitting back, we must attack from first whistle to last."


History is on Bremen's side as Espanyol famously let a 3-0 first-
leg lead slip in the 1988 UEFA Cup final against Bayer
Leverkusen, when they went 3-0 down at the BayArena, and lost on
penalties.


But while the Spaniards have been banned from thinking about
Leverkusen, Bremen can take little comfort from Espanyol's away
form.


They have yet to lose a game in the UEFA Cup this season, and
have conceded just three times in three wins and three draws on
their travels to date. Their last two away games have ended in
0-0 draws.


But Bremen have been tremendous at home in Europe, winning their
last five European games at the Weserstadion since drawing 1-1
against Barcelona in the UEFA Champions League group stages.


They have conceded just twice at home in Europe all season and
have twice won UEFA Cup games by three-goal margins, beating Ajax
3-0 earlier in the competition and Alkmaar 4-1 in the quarter-
finals.


Bremen, though, may also have had their minds distracted by the
present uncertainty regarding their star striker Miroslav Klose,
who has been persistently linked with a move to Bayern Munich,
with a figure of 15million euros being bandied around.


Espanyol will be without their experienced playmaker Ivan De la
Pena, who went off during the first leg and has not recovered
from a calf injury - though there might be a upside to that as if
he played and got booked he would miss the final were Espanyol to
make the May 16 final.

