

Thailand's finance minister says political uncertainty following
last September's coup has become the biggest threat to the
kingdom's economy, which could be heading towards its lowest
growth in six years.


In an interview with AFP, Finance Minister Chalongphob
Sussangkarn said the military-installed government would soon
launch measures to boost the sluggish economy but cautioned
against optimism in post-coup Thailand.


"After the coup, people are waiting to see a clear signal as to
what the political situation will look like after the next
election," Chalongphob said, referring to the December polls
promised by the ruling junta.


"But people are not sure about what's going to happen and this is
really affecting our economy, and political uncertainty is the
biggest threat to the economy," said the former World Bank
economist.


Amid falling public support for his government, Prime Minister
Surayud Chulanont, installed by the army after ousting business-
savvy premier Thaksin Shinawatra, announced in March the country
would hold elections in December.


But Thai voters are jittery as the Constitutional Court is set to
rule on vote fraud charges against the nation's two biggest
political parties -- Thaksin's Thai Rak Thai party and the main
opposition Democrat Party -- on May 30.


If found guilty, the parties would be dissolved and top
executives banned from politics for five years, meaning prominent
leaders could not run in the December poll.


"At the moment, things are very uncertain. There has been nothing
concrete yet to show that when we get to the next election in
December, things will be different from the situation before the
coup," Chalongphob said.


The September putsch capped months of street protests in Bangkok
demanding Thaksin's ouster over alleged abuse of power and
corruption. The weary public initially welcomed the coup with
high hopes for a return to political normality.


But the military government has recently come under increasing
criticism over a number of policy miscues, including its poor
economic management and an escalating insurgency in the kingdom's
Muslim-majority south.


Hit by an uncertain political outlook, Thailand's consumer
confidence dropped to a five-year low in February, and the
central bank last month cut its growth forecast for 2007 to
3.8-4.8 percent from 4.0-5.0 percent earlier.


If the economy rose just 3.8 percent, it would mark the lowest
growth since 2001, when the kingdom's gross domestic product
(GDP) grew 2.2 percent.


To shore up the flagging economy, Chalongphob said the government
would implement a stimulus package including extending more loans
to farmers and grassroots workers from state-owned banks, and
easing tax measures.


"We need to inject a certain amount of money to turn the
situation around.  But it's not going to go overboard. We tend to
focus more on what can be done this year because after the
election in December, we will be gone," he said.


Chalongphob declined to give further details on the package but
voiced hope that it would help restore business confidence hit by
the government's policy blunders, including the central bank's
controversial capital controls aimed at halting the Thai baht's
rise against the dollar.


Imposed in December, the capital rules required 30 percent of all
incoming investment to be held by financial institutions for up
to one year, causing a stock sell-off in the month with losses
worth a staggering 23 billion dollars.


Many exemptions have been made since the December debacle to
water down the currency rules, but the general policy remains in
place.


Chalongphob, appointed in March after his predecessor and former
central bank governor Pridiyathorn Devakula quit suddenly, had
previously come out against the draconian currency rules.


His appointment as finance minister had raised hopes in the
currency market that Thailand would scrap the 30 percent rules,
but Chalongphob defended his decision to keep the capital
controls.


"When I became the finance minister, I knew there were
speculators speculating on my ordering the Bank of Thailand to
change the policy," he said.


"If that happened, the baht would strengthen very rapidly, and I
did not want to create a shock in the market," Chalongphob said.


But despite the capital controls, the Thai baht continued to rise
against the dollar, staying at a nine-year high in the
34.00-35.00 range.


With the local currency soaring, business leaders have called on
the government to implement protective measures for exports, the
backbone of the Thai economy, as the strong baht makes Thai
exports less competitive abroad.


But Chalongphob said not only exports but overall the economy
faced pressure due to a lack of political clarity.


"Right now, there is too much confusion. People are waiting for a
clear picture as they cannot predict what will happen" to Thai
politics, he said.

