

Pakistani lawyers and opposition workers chanting slogans against
President Pervez Musharraf rallied here Wednesday as the
country's suspended chief justice appeared before a judicial
council.


Justice Iftikhar Mohammad Chaudhry, charged with misconduct and
abuse of authority by the president on March 9 made his seventh
appearance at the Supreme Court in the capital, his lawyers said.


The rally came despite a heavy crackdown overnight by police who
detained hundreds of activists from opposition parties to prevent
them from reaching the top court, police and opposition sources
said.


Scores of protesters stood under scorching sun shouting "Go
Musharraf go", "Musharraf is US stooge" and "We want independent
judiciary," witnesses said.


The turnout was much lower than previous protests since the start
of the judicial crisis, during which rallies of thousands were
held outside the court for each hearing of Chaudhry's case, which
is being heard by a panel of judges called the Supreme Judicial
Council.


Islamabad police chief Zafar Iqbal told AFP more than 100 people
from different opposition parties were detained in raids
overnight in the capital to prevent "potential trouble-makers
from agitating outside the court."


Police sources said another 200 opposition activists were
arrested in different cities of the main Punjab province.


Lawyers boycotted courts across the country and staged rallies in
support of the embattled judge who has denied charges that he
abused his position to get a police job for his son and to amass
a fleet of cars.


Opponents accuse Musharraf of dismissing Chaudhry illegally in an
attempt to weaken the judiciary and make it easier for him to
stay on as army chief past 2007, when the constitution says he is
meant to give up the position.


Musharraf also intends to seek re-election by the outgoing
parliament for another five years ahead of national polls due
late this year or early next -- a move that could spark other
legal challenges.


Musharraf says the dismissal of Chaudhry was legal and intended
to stem corruption.

