

Creative Technology, Singapore's own high-tech champion
struggling against peers such as Apple, said Wednesday that it
tumbled into the red in its third quarter, hit by disappointing
sales in key US and Asian markets.


For the January-March period, the company incurred a net loss of
23.61 million US dollars, compared with a profit of 92.12 million
dollars in the three months to December, the Nasdaq and locally-
listed company said.


Creative's December quarter profit was boosted by a 100-million-
dollar payout from Apple Inc as part of a deal under which the
US-based iPod maker settled a dispute over patented technology
used in its MP3 players.


In the three months to March 2006, Creative had a net loss of
114.33 million dollars.


Sales in the just completed third quarter plunged to 183.83
million dollars from 424.36 million dollars in the previous three
months and 225.66 million dollars a year earlier.


"Our sales for the quarter in the United States and Asia came in
below our expectations," said Craig McHugh, president of Creative
Labs Inc.


The Singapore outfit, which has struggled to compete against
Apple's iconic iPod, saw its market share in the Americas region
fall further to 32 percent in the third quarter from 34 percent
in the second and from 41 percent a year ago.


In Asia and the rest of the world, its market share was 19
percent, up from 15 percent in the previous quarter but down from
21 percent a year ago.


Analysts said the March quarter loss is another reminder of how
Creative lacks an iPod-beating product that can help the
Singapore firm challenge Apple in the digital music, or MP3,
player market.


"I think the main challenge is there is still no killer product
for them," said Carey Wong, an analyst with OCBC Investment
Research in Singapore.


During Creative's heyday, the company had its Sound Blaster audio
cards for computers that made it a household name globally, said
Wong.


"In the past, there was Sound Blaster ... there is a risk (now)
of them being just another electronics company," he told AFP.


The company is aiming to cut operating expenses to 50 million
dollars by the end of the September quarter, said McHugh.


With the cost-cutting measures and new products in the current
quarter, Creative aims to return to profitability in the second-
half of 2007, he said.


Founded in 1981, Creative gained fame for its Sound Blaster cards
that allowed personal computers to be used as home entertainment
centres but it has struggled since venturing into consumer
electronics.


In the MP3 market where the company has invested heavily,
Creative has found it an uphill battle to challenge iPod, the
world's most popular digital music player which sold over 10
million units in the first three months of the year.


In contrast to Creative's loss-making third quarter, Apple
reported its net profit in the three months to March jumped 88
percent to 770 million dollars on brisk sales of iPod players and
Macintosh computers.


At the 12:30 pm (0400 GMT) midday break, Creative shares were at
9.15 Singapore dollars (6.05 US), up 0.05 from Monday. Markets in
Singapore were closed Tuesday for May Day.

