

The leftist leaders of Venezuela and Bolivia Tuesday marked May
Day by celebrating their nationalization drives, while in Cuba,
ailing revolutionary leader Fidel Castro failed to show up for
what is considered his favorite celebration.


Castro's absence from the communist country's May 1 parade came
as a surprise to some Cuba-watchers who had anticipated he would
use the occasion to make a comeback, nine months after he handed
power to his brother Raul in the wake of major surgery.


Tens of thousands of people attended the traditional parade at
Havana's Revolution Square.


In Venezuela, Castro's close friend and ally, President Hugo
Chavez, celebrated May Day at an event marking the state's take-
over of controling stakes in oil facilities in the Orinoco River
basin, an area that could contain the world's largest crude
reserves.


"This is the true nationalization of our natural resources,"
Chavez said at the Jose Oil Processing plant, to the cheers of
some 6,000 workers and soldiers.


The move is part of a wide-ranging nationalization drive the
firebrand president launched in January.


In a televised address on the eve of the celebrations, Chavez
also announced Venezuela was pulling out of the World Bank and
the International Monetary Fund.


In Bolivia, President Evo Morales, a close ally of Castro and
Chavez, told thousands of workers his government's
nationalization of oil and natural gas installations "has been a
blessing for the country," and said he would announce new
measures in the coming days.


Ecuador's leftist President Rafael Correa joined workers in the
traditional May Day parade in Quito, and pledged in a speech to
battle globalization.


Nicaragua's President Daniel Ortega, a former revolutionary
leader whose Sandinista government battled US-funded Contra
rebels in the 1980s and 1990s, led thousands of workers and
supporters marching through Managua.


But Brazil's Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, a moderate leftist and a
former trade union leader, stayed away from May Day celebrations
for the fist time in 27 years, opting instead to spend the day
with his family.


Mexico's conservative President Felipe Calderon also stayed away
from the May Day parade.


"It has been a tradition for the president to officially head
this celebration, but over time it has become, rather than a
celebration of workers, a celebration of the president," Calderon
said in a televised address.


In Santiago, some 10,000 people took part in a march, which ended
in clashes with police firing water canons and tear gas at small
groups of rock-hurling demonstrators.


Authorities said 16 people were arrested.

