

Few issues are as divisive as nuclear power, and the furore over
its use threatens to resurface as leading scientists meet in
Thailand to thrash out a plan to reduce the impact of climate
change.


Nuclear supporters hail it as a "clean" energy that will help
lessen the world's dependence on the polluting fossil fuels, gas,
oil and coal, which spew damaging greenhouse gasses into the air
and drive global warming.


The potential of nuclear energy to help reduce carbon dioxide
emissions is expected to be mentioned in a report being drawn up
in Bangkok this week by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC), the UN's top authority on the issue.


"There has so far been a tendency both at the IPCC and (Kyoto
Protocol talks) to duck the nuclear issue, but they will not be
able to duck it forever," said Malcolm Grimston, a nuclear policy
expert and associate fellow at London-based think tank Chatham
House.


The arguments against nuclear energy have changed little since
the heyday of the anti-nuclear movement in the 1970s, with
environmental groups such as Greenpeace and WWF labelling it
unsafe and unclean.


Stephan Singer, WWF's European head of climate and energy policy,
told AFP on the sidelines of the IPCC conference that his group
did not consider it a sustainable or cost effective alternative
to fossil fuels.


Greenpeace also maintains that nuclear is never an option, but
boundaries have recently blurred between nuclear friends and
foes.


A number of gurus of the environmental movement, including
Greenpeace co-founder Patrick Moore and James Lovelock, one of
the best-known figures of the green movement, have come out in
favour of nuclear power.


"There are some very important people who are now speaking
positively about nuclear energy, so I think the debate is at a
different place (from where it was) three or four years ago,"
said Richard Tarasofsky, head of the energy, environment and
development programme at Chatham House.


This debate may be played out behind the closed doors of the IPCC
meeting, where scientists and diplomats are likely to argue their
governments' corners.


An early draft of the report's summary seen by AFP lists nuclear
power as one of a range of technologies available to help reduce
carbon dioxide emissions.


Greenpeace says there are currently 441 nuclear power reactors in
31 countries, and leading the pack in developing or using nuclear
energy are the United States, France and Japan -- with India and
China close behind.


China has said it plans to build as many as three nuclear power
plants a year over the next decade, while India last year reached
an initial agreement with the United States, giving it access to
US nuclear fuel and technology.


Poorer countries such as Thailand, the Philippines and Egypt are
also pondering going nuclear as the demand for energy increases,
but analysts say there remain many unresolved issues, not least
the cost.


"Traditionally nuclear energy has had to receive major subsidies
from governments in order to be financially viable," said
Tarasofsky.


Disposing of nuclear waste also remains a problem.


"We do not have a single depository for radioactive toxic waste
which is accepted by geologists in the world," WWF's Singer said.


The nuclear power debate is not limited to the environment.


Charles Ferguson, science and technology fellow at Washington-
based think tank the Council on Foreign Relations, said that the
administration of US president George W. Bush was pushing nuclear
as one solution to climate change.


But at the same time it denounces Iran and North Korea over
claims that they are using civilian nuclear programmes as a cover
for developing weapons, leaving the US open to accusations of
double standards.


"The White House wants to play favourites in defining some
countries as 'good guys' who are allowed the full access to
nuclear technologies... and others as 'bad guys' who are denied
access to all of those technologies," Ferguson told AFP by email.


IPCC delegates said that although nuclear power would be
discussed, they insisted it was merely one piece of the climate
change puzzle.


"The message that comes out here is that there is not a silver
bullet, (but) a whole range of different methodologies and
technologies," David Warrilow, head of the UK delegation, told
AFP here.

