

The world's oceans could rise by up to seven meters if
Greenland's ice cap entirely melts because of global warming,
climate scientists said Tuesday.


Glaciers on Greenland, the world's most icy land mass, are now
melting most quickly where they are in contact with surrounding
ocean, while ice in the high centre remains intact, said Garry
Clarke, a professor at the University of British Columbia in this
western Canadian city.


But if global warming causes the freezing level to move higher,
the loss of ice would be worse than Greenland experienced in
previous interglacial periods dating back hundreds of thousands
of years.


"It would be the complete disappearance of the Greenland ice
sheet," Clarke told a meeting of scientists and journalists. "We
still don't know how quickly our rendezvous with this will
occur."


The scientists said much research remains to be done because
climate models on Arctic ice sheets are inadequate. Their
research contributes to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change, which will release another report in early May.


Much of their data, the scientists said, is obtained by two
satellite tracking systems and gravitational physics.


The speakers were from the Canadian Foundation for Climate and
Atmospheric Sciences, which is composed of scientists from
universities throughout Canada.


Canada will be the country most impacted by global warming, said
the group chair Gordon McBean, a scientist and former federal
government deputy minister.


But the polar cryosphere -- Arctic ice -- is a focus of the
entire international scientific community, said McBean, "because
the potential for sea level rise exists primarily in the polar
cryosphere."


Shawn Marshall, a geographer from the University of Calgary, said
"the state of our knowledge with large ice masses is not up to
snuff ... there's a lot of uncertainty in the forecast."


The researchers' work, said Marshall, has a direct impact on
predictions of flooding in low-lying countries, and on risk
calculations such as how the United Kingdom should rebuild the
barrier on the River Thames.


Several of the scientists expressed dismay with the recent
announcement by Canada's federal government that Canada will not
try to reach the landmark emissions reduction targets set by the
international Kyoto accord.


"It's  an absolute disgrace," said Richard Peltier, lead
investigator with the group and a physicist at the University of
Toronto.


The research group's funding is due to run out in 2010, said
McBean, and while the scientists have asked Canada's federal
government for a commitment for stable future funding, they have
been waiting one year for an answer.


"We have no funds to start new initiatives," he told the
scientists and reporters.


Asked if international funding agencies will contribute money for
the cryosphere research, McBean replied angrily: "Other countries
contribute a lot more to international science than Canada does.
We claim to be a G8 country, and we should act like one."

