

Scottish voters go to the polls Thursday in what British Prime
Minister Tony Blair has called a "a decision which will define
the future of Scotland" because of nationalist calls for
independence.


Blair's governing Labour Party is trailing the Scottish National
Party (SNP) in the polls and could lose its position as the
largest party in the 129-seat parliament in Edinburgh and vital
support in its traditional heartland.


The SNP -- which has campaigned hard on Blair's unpopularity,
opposition to the Iraq war and nuclear weapons -- says it will
publish plans for a referendum on independence within 100 days of
coming to power, with the vote in 2010.


Labour has wheeled out its big guns to try to stop that
happening, amid warnings from Blair's likely successor, finance
minister Gordon Brown, about the "Balkanisation" of Britain.


The Scottish parliamentary elections are being held on the same
day as local council ballots in England and Scotland, as well as
voting for the Welsh Assembly.


Blair, who marks 10 years in power Wednesday, is expected to
announce his resignation within days of the results, making Brown
the first prime minister from a Scottish constituency since 1964.


With a different party in power in Edinburgh from London for the
first time, that could make life constitutionally uncomfortable
for the avowedly pro-British Brown from virtually the start of
his premiership.


But while Blair accepts that voters might want to give him a
"kicking", he says the election is much more than a protest vote.


"This is a massive decision... It will define the future of
Scotland for a generation and possibly more than that," Blair
said in an interview published in The Scotsman newspaper last
month.


"It's as important as that -- it's a defining moment for
Scotland. Because the question is, do you continue with the
strength of the (United Kingdom) or do you put a question mark
over Scotland's continuing membership of the UK."


Brown says the election is about an economic argument -- whether
Scotland can survive on its own or if it benefits financially
from the 300-year-old union with England and Wales -- rather than
cultural identity.


He, Blair and Labour are banking on faith in their strong
economic record and polls suggesting only 30 percent of Scots
support independence.


But Alex Salmond's SNP insist 50 percent of Scots back going it
alone, and that with oil and gas revenue from the North Sea, an
independent Scotland could emulate the successes of smaller
countries like Ireland, Iceland and Norway.


Labour says the SNP's economic plans are uncosted and would leave
an 11-billion- pound (16-billion-euro, 22-billion-dollar) black
hole in the Scottish economy and each Scottish tax payer 5,000
pounds a year worse off.


A Financial Times analysis on April 25 said an independent
Scotland would have to choose between cutting public expenditure
or raising taxes within a decade as oil revenues drop off.


But who becomes the largest party on May 3 is less important than
who shares power with whom in a coalition government afterwards.


The combination of first-past-the-post and a form of proportional
representation means one party is unlikely to win a majority of
65 seats, making a coalition government on the cards.


"That's why the election is interesting," John Curtice, professor
of politics at Strathclyde University in Glasgow, told AFP.
"There's a whole game of coalition footsie going on."


Centre-left Labour has been in a formal partnership with the
Liberal Democrats since the Scottish Parliament opened in 1999.


The Lib Dems are again seen as power-brokers but have refused to
countenance sharing power with the SNP if independence is on the
table. If the results are close, smaller parties like the Greens
could have more of a say.

