

Five-time champions Liverpool reached the Champions League final
here on Tuesday after beating Chelsea 4-1 on penalties after the
tie ended 1-1 on aggregate.


Liverpool had levelled the clash through Daniel Agger in the 22nd
minute - Chelsea won the first leg 1-0 - while the hosts had a
goal by Dirk Kuyt ruled out in the first-half of extra-time for
offside.


Kuyt, though, had the last laugh as he rifled home the decisive
penalty after Pepe Reina had saved two of Chelsea's penalties by
Arjen Robben and Geremi.


For inspirational captain Steven Gerrard it was a nice way to
respond to Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho's remarks that Liverpool
were a 'little' side.


"Jose Mourinho has been a credit to English football," said
Gerrard.


"However he makes us laugh some times.


"It was a bit disrespectful to call us a little club, yeah a
little club that has reached two European Cup finals in three
years."


Mourinho, whose position at the club has been linked to success
in the Champions League, refused to accept that his team had been
beaten by the better side - even though Liverpool hit the bar
through Kuyt, and saw two great efforts saved by Petr Cech.


"There are not many words to be said at this moment, it is the
kind of moment when everybody tries to be strong," said the
Portuguese handler, who won the Champions League with Porto in
2004.


"They (the Chelsea players) have a lot of reasons to be proud of
themselves.


"We were the best team even against a team that just plays for
the Champions League. We were the only side who tried to win over
90 to 120 minutes."


Benitez, who guided Liverpool to victory two years ago, winning
again on penalties over AC Milan after coming back from 3-0 down,
was typically understated.


"Yes every player and supporter were heroes.


"We were confident because we had players who practise penalties
every session, at least three of them."


Kuyt, who had said on Sunday that they regarded Mourinho as a
laughing stock in the Liverpool dressing room because of his
increasingly laughable comments, said it was almost like a dream.


"It is very special for me, my first final in my first year at
Liverpool," said the Dutch international striker.


"We believed in it. Pepe was marvellous."


Reina, who had also been the hero in Liverpool's shootout victory
over West Ham in last season's FA Cup final saving three of the
four penalties, was typically modest.


"It was an important win. We've reached the last step and now we
must climb it," he said.


Gerrard, though, paid the Spanish 'keeper a rich compliment.


"Pepe is the best goalkeeper in the world. I am not just saying
it because he is standing there. We knew all about him before he
came here and his ability at saving penalties."


Gerrard, who was ice cool in taking his penalty, said the victory
was right up there with the most memorable nights at Anfield.


"It is obviously one of the best. To go and do it again after
being a goal down is special.


"The atmosphere helped, as did the manager's tactics.


"(You have) got to give the players credit, we stepped over the
line and fought for every ball together."


Liverpool will meet either AC Milan or Manchester United in the
final on May 23 in Athens.

