

The murder trial of music legend Phil Spector faced a further
delay on Tuesday amid a row over disclosure of evidence and the
illness of the lead defense lawyer.


Witness testimony had been due to resume on Wednesday but has now
been postponed until next week following an undisclosed illness
concerning Spector's flamboyant lawyer Bruce Cutler, court
officials said.


Instead the court will sit without a jury on Wednesday as Judge
Larry Paul Fidler considers motions from prosecutors who have
accused Spector's legal team of failing to properly disclose
expert evidence.


In a motion filed at Los Angeles Superior Court, prosecutor Alan
Jackson questioned the appearance of potential defense witness
Dr. Henry Lee on a US television show last week where he
discussed the case.


Lee told his interviewer that blood from Spector's alleged victim
-- B-movie actress Lana Clarkson -- had travelled six feet after
the shot was fired. Defense lawyer Linda Kenney had also repeated
the claim in opening statements.


However, Jackson said Spector's team had failed to make the
evidence available to prosecutors.


"This claim and claimed experiment are not contained in any
reports or notes provided by the defense, and the people were
caught completely unaware that such testimony or evidence would
be forthcoming," Jackson wrote.


"There is no conceivable scenario that could justify the
defendant's intentional withholding of reports regarding this
unusual claim, which was going to be highlighted by his counsel
during opening statement," he added.


No details have been disclosed about the illness affecting
Spector's lawyer Cutler, famous for defending New York mafia boss
John Gotti.


One of Spector's lawyers Roger Rosen, told The Los Angeles Times
that "Superman has to get some kryptonite taken out of his
system."


The trial got underway in earnest last week after prosecutors
laid out their case against Spector in opening statements.


Spector, 67, the reclusive musical genius who pioneered the 1960s
"Wall of Sound" recording technique, is accused of gunning down
Clarkson, 40, on February 3, 2003, hours after meeting her at a
Hollywood nightclub.


Spector denies murder, with his lawyers saying last week Clarkson
killed herself. The long-awaited trial had been repeatedly
delayed after Spector replaced his lawyers on no fewer than three
occasions.

