

India offered "constructive" ideas Tuesday in talks with the
United States aimed at reviving a controversial nuclear deal
struck nearly two years ago, officials said.


After meeting over dinner Monday, US Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs Nicholas Burns and Indian Foreign Secretary
Shivshankar Menon got down to business for formal talks on the
nuclear impasse.


State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said that Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice dropped into the meeting to pay a courtesy
call on Menon, who is the Indian foreign ministry's top
bureaucrat.


"Our overall sense is that the Indians came here with some
constructive ideas, and that there's a possibility that we could
move the process forward based on these ideas, although that's
not a foregone conclusion," McCormack said.


"That doesn't mean that they're going to be able to move this as
quickly as we had hoped -- we'll see -- as a result of these
meetings. But we are confident in the long run that we will get
this deal done," he said.


According to Indian embassy press attache Rahul Chhabra, Menon
and Burns were discussing "the entire gamut of Indo-US relations,
including the civilian nuclear issue."


The US government has expressed frustration over the pace of the
talks to implement the pact, which would give India access to US
nuclear energy technology without requiring the Asian country to
halt its atomic arms program.


The nuclear deal was struck in July 2005 and is due to take full
effect next year. The US Congress overwhelmingly approved the
pact in December.


It is the centerpiece of energy-hungry India's new relationship
with Washington after decades of Cold War tensions, as it tries
to sustain its stunning economic expansion.


In an opinion piece in Sunday's Washington Post, Burns predicted
that "within a generation, Americans may view India as one of our
two or three most important strategic partners."


But differences persist, chiefly over a clause which says the
United States would withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and
equipment if India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear
testing.


Menon last week sought to dispel fears from Indian critics who
say the agreement will hamper the country's nuclear weapons
program, nine years after a round of Indian atomic tests sparked
a tit-for-tat response from Pakistan.


"Whatever we do with the US will not affect our nuclear strategic
program," he said in a report tabled in the Indian parliament on
Thursday.


Menon launched two days of talks here on Monday, meeting first
with Paula Dobriansky, the US under secretary of state for global
affairs and democracy.


The State Department described the talks as "productive," and
said they covered a range of issues from democratic values to
environmental conservation.


Indian experts warn that New Delhi must act fast on the nuclear
deal, arguing that with the US presidential elections looming
next year the accord could soon drop off the radar screen in
Washington.


One likely outcome was a compromise on the agreement's wording,
according to G. Balachandran, a visiting fellow at the Indian
security think-tank Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.


"The differences are over the consequences of nuclear testing.
The Americans can't take away the right to test. It's a matter of
reaching a compromise over the wording of the deal, not a
compromise of interests," he said.

