

Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert faced an open rebellion within
his party on Wednesday as senior officials joined calls for him
to quit over a damning report of his leadership during the
Lebanon war.


Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni -- a top Kadima official considered
one of the frontrunners to take over party leadership -- was due
to ask Olmert to quit during a meeting later on Wednesday, an
official of her office told AFP.


"She is expected to ask him to resign," he said on condition of
anonymity.


Should she issue the call, Livni would become the most senior
member in Olmert's ruling coalition and within his party to join
those clamouring for the premier to step down in the wake of the
critical war report.


Speaking at the opening of an extraordinary cabinet meeting
Wednesday, Olmert warned: "To all those who are in haste in order
to take advantage of the report for political profit, I tell them
not to be hasty.


"There is no doubt that the report points at some extremely
serious failures in the government's conduct and naturally first
and foremost of me," he admitted.


Hours before the cabinet meeting, the head of Kadima's
parliamentary bloc also called on Olmert to step down, saying it
would be "suicidal" for the centrist party if the premier
remained.


"He must take the decision to resign so that Kadima can continue
with his mandate," Avigdor Itzchaky, the chairman of Kadima's
parliamentary bloc, told public radio.


Two of Kadima's 29 deputies in the 120-seat parliament on Tuesday
openly called on him to resign and a senior party official told
AFP that a majority of Kadima MPs wanted Olmert to quit.


Meanwhile, Transport Minister Shaul Mofaz of Kadima said he would
call during Wednesday's cabinet meeting to "for the creation of a
broad unity government with a deep sense of responsibility."


Polls published on Wednesday showed that between 65 and 68
percent of Israelis want Olmert to quit, and only six percent
think he is capable of carrying out the functions of his office.


With the opposition and the press howling for Olmert's head, the
mutiny within his party further upped the enormous public
pressure for the 61-year-old premier to stand down less than a
year after officially assuming office.


That pressure is likely to increase further on Thursday, when
parliament holds an extraordinary session to discuss the report
and a mass rally is due to take place in Tel Aviv to call on
Olmert to resign.


So far Olmert has refused to bow down and pundits warn that with
an aversion for early elections among his 78-strong coalition --
which polls show the right-wing opposition Likud party as winning
-- Israel's master politician may yet ride out the storm.


Speaking hours after the report was made public on Monday, Olmert
told the nation that it would be "incorrect" for him to step
down, but vowed that his government, already reeling from a
string of sex and graft scandals, would focus quickly on
correcting mistakes exposed by the inquiry.


Monday's partial report accused Olmert of "serious failure in
exercising judgement, responsibility and prudence," of acting
"hastily" and personally contributing to "over-ambitious" and
unfeasible war aims during the 34-day conflict against Hezbollah
last summer.


The war, which Israel launched after Hezbollah seized two
soldiers during a deadly cross-border raid on July 12, killed
more than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, and more than 160
Israelis, most of them soldiers, according to government figures.


But the Jewish state failed to achieve its two main objectives of
liberating the two captured servicemen and of stopping the Shiite
militia from firing rockets into the Jewish state.

