

Hundreds of thousands of activists rallied across the United
States on Tuesday, demanding an overhaul of immigration laws and
greater rights for the country's estimated 12 million illegal
workers.


May Day protests were underway in several major cities --
including Los Angeles, Chicago, Detroit and New York -- by a
broad coalition of immigrant rights' campaigners.


The rallies took place on the one year anniversary of massive
nationwide protests which saw more than one million mostly
Hispanic workers stage an unprecedented "economic boycott" by
skipping work for a day.


Divisions among activist groups about the best way to campaign
for reform as well as fear among illegal workers following a
series of immigration crackdowns led to a lower a lower turnout,
activists say.


But in Chicago, many protesters said they were motivated by a
high-profile raid by heavily-armed FBI agents in the heart of one
of the largest Mexican neighborhoods in the Midwest.


Police put the size of the demonstration at around 150,000, while
organizers claimed 1 million protesters marched through the heart
of the city waving US flags, wearing white t-shirts and chanting
"si se puede" (yes we can.)


A steady stream of protesters poured into the city's downtown
Grant Park, where they were greeted by the city's powerful
Democratic mayor Richard Daley, who castigated federal
politicians for failing to pass substantive immigration reform.


"Will you please stop dividing our families," Daley told the
cheering crowd. "Our nation is one of compassion and
understanding and we have to understand this country was built by
immigrants past, present and future."


In Los Angeles, where around 500,000 protestors brought the
city's business district to a halt last year, police said between
eight to 10,000 people had gathered for a march to city hall.


Waving US and Mexican flags, marchers called for reform to offer
a route to citizenship for illegal immigrants. Many carried
placards reading "Legalization Now!" and chanted "stop the
deportations."


Flavia Jimenez, an analyst at the National Council of La Raza
(NCLR), the largest non-profit Latino rights organization in the
US, said workers were wary of possible repercussions if they
protested.


"There is more fear this time and that is preventing our
community from mobilizing like last year," Jimenez told AFP.


Although smaller than 12 months ago, the Los Angeles protests
forced the closure of 17 downtown streets and altered some 60 bus
routes. The murder trial of legendary music producer Phil Spector
has also been adjourned for the day.


In Detroit, about 10,000 people, also waving Mexican and American
flags, marched carrying banners reading "Legislation Now, No
Guest Worker Bill" and "Amnesty for All."


"We're here for my late father who was an illegal," said Rosalie
Delagarza Johnstone, a Detroit-born Mexican-American who attended
the rally with her 18 -year-old son, David, who skipped school to
participate.


"He was deported, then fought his way back here to make a better
life for me and my brothers and sisters. He joined the army and
could have died, would have died, to help us."


On the east coast, groups rallying under the New York Immigration
Coalition and National May 1st Movement for Worker and Immigrant
Rights marched to demand more rights for all undocumented
immigrants.


Downtown Manhattan's Union Square became a sea of color, with the
Stars and Stripes mingling with flags from Honduras, Mexico, El
Salvador and Ecuador.


Live bands, including one offering a reggae rendition of "Don't
want Your Homeland Security" gave the event a carnival-like
atmosphere.


"We will be creating a family tree to symbolize the struggles of
millions of immigrant families to stay together," the coalition
said in a statement, calling for the government to "stop tearing
families apart!"


President George W. Bush last month called for an overhaul of
immigration laws by the end of the year. Analysts believe reform
will stall if the issue drags into 2008, as focus turns to the
race for the White House.


Bush's proposals include the creation of a temporary guest worker
program and clearing the way for some undocumented immigrants to
become US citizens, coupled with a series of tougher security
measures.


In Miami, Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean met
leaders of Latino and Haitian groups, promising to address the
immigration issue.


"If we have a Democratic President this is all going to be
fixed," said Dean, whose party backs an immigration reform that
allows immigrants who pay taxes and obey the law to apply for
citizenship.

