

Violent clashes marred huge May Day rallies around the world
Tuesday with more than 700 protesters arrested in the worst riots
in Istanbul, as Fidel Castro failed to show up for Cuba's
celebrations.


As other South American presidents marched at the heads of large
rallies, Castro disappointed many supporters by staying away from
Havana's annual May Day, which would have been his first public
appearance since undergoing major surgery nine months ago.


It was only the third time since he took power in 1949 that
Castro missed a May Day fete; the other two time only because he
was traveling at the time.


Workers marched through towns and cities around the world in a
show of global solidarity, calling for better pay and conditions,
and highlighting social and political inequities.


But in many places tensions and political divisions spilled over
into clashes between extremists or with police.


The worst violence was in Istanbul, where police fired shots in
the air and used tear gas and water cannons to disperse left-wing
demonstrators intent on holding a banned rally in a central city
square.


More than 700 people, including almost 200 women, were detained,
according to police, as tensions run high in Turkey between the
army and government over a disputed presidential election.


In Chile police arrested a dozen people at a rally of about
10,000 people after clashes broke out.


There was violence too in other parts of the world. In rare
scenes of civil unrest in the southern Chinese enclave of Macau,
police fired warning shots after a crowd of more than 1,000 broke
through police cordons.


In Berlin some 120 people were arrested in violence between
demonstrators and police, as neo-Nazis and counter-protesters
faced off across the country.


Anarchist groups and far-right groups also seized on the day to
provoke trouble in the Czech Republic, with police saying they
had arrested dozens of people.


In South America, leftist presidents marched at the heads of
large rallies in an unprecedented show of support for their
countries' labour forces.


Ecuador's President Rafael Correa, an economist, led a large
demonstration in Quito and railed against the power of foreign
multinationals in his country where unemployment has soared to
10.3 percent.


"We are being exploited by the wealthy multinationals. They are
on the lookout for the country which gives them the greatest
benefit and the best returns for their capital. This has to end,"
he told thousands of protesters.


Venezuela's firebrand socialist President Hugo Chavez announced
his country was withdrawing from the World Bank and the IMF, as
it also took control of privately run operations in the country's
rich oil fields.


In Nicaragua, Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega, who returned to
power at the beginning of the year, also led a march of young
civil servants, students and poor people, many of whom had
travelled in from the provinces.


Meanwhile, history was made in the southern South Korean city of
Changwon, when 2,000 workers, including 60 from North Korea,
waved "unification flags" during a special rally for reuniting
the Korean peninsula.


It was the first time since the 1950-1953 Korean War that North
Korean workers had visited South Korea for the annual labour
festival.


Several hundred Iranians took to the streets of Tehran to demand
better working conditions, while 100,000 Italian union activists
marched in Turin and more than 117,000 took to the streets in
France.


Although the May Day rallies were inspired by a first march held
in Chicago in 1886, the day is not marked by major labor groups
in the United States.


However, for the second year running tens of thousands marched in
several US cities, notably Los Angeles and Chicago, to demand
more rights for the 12 million illegal immigrants who do many of
the menial jobs which US citizens snub.


In Manila, riot police fanned out as 5,000 people waving red
banners with the communist gold hammer and sickle were blocked
from marching on the palace of Philippines President Gloria
Arroyo to demand her resignation.


In Thailand, about 10,000 workers swept through the centre of
Bangkok railing against the military-backed government.


For some there was cause to celebrate though. Some two million
people were due to dance until midnight in Rio and other
Brazilian cities at special May Day festivals and concerts.


Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki promised free education in public
secondary schools starting next year, while Burundi President
Pierre Nkurunziza awarded government workers a 34 percent pay
rise.

