

The vast majority of Israelis want Prime Minister Ehud Olmert to
resign in the wake of a critical inquiry that blasted his
handling of the Lebanon war, according to polls published on
Wednesday.


Sixty-five percent of Israelis want Olmert to resign immediately,
compared with 10 percent against such a move and 25 percent who
want him to quit only after the final report on the war, due by
August, said the poll in the mass-selling Yediot Aharonot.


Fifty-one percent want early elections, while 23 percent want the
current legislature to continue sitting should Olmert and his
Defence Minister Amir Peretz, also roasted by the interim
findings in the report of the Winograd Commission, step down.


Twenty-nine percent think that Benjamin Netanyahu, the chief of
the main right- wing opposition Likud party and a former premier,
is most capable of assuming the functions of prime minister.


He is followed by Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni of Olmert's Kadima
party with 20 percent, senior Labour party politician Ami Ayalon
with 14 percent and former Labour premier Edud Barak with 10
percent.


Only six percent think that Olmert is capable of carrying out
premier's duties.


The poll had a 4.5 percent margin of error. The paper did not
specify how many people were questioned.


Another survey published by the liberal Haaretz paper showed that
68 percent of Israelis wanted Olmert to resign and 40 were in
favour of early parliamentary elections.


A survey in the Maariv tabloid showed that early elections would
be won by Likud, which would get 30 deputies in the 120-seat
Knesset, compared with the current 12 mandates.


Olmert's Kadima would get 20 seats, compared with 29 now; its
main coalition partner Labour would get 18 seats, compared with
19 today.


The ultra-nationalist Yisrael Beitenu party would get 14 seats,
compared with 11 today and ultra-Orthodox Shas would get eight
seats, compared with 12 today. Both parties are currently members
of Olmert's 78-seat ruling coalition.

