

Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Tuesday night
that he would seek early legislative elections as early as June
24 after the country's top court annulled a parliamentary vote to
elect the next president.


He also proposed a reform package, including presidential
elections by popular vote, that could change the face of Turkish
politics.


Erdogan said parliament would determine a new timetable Wednesday
for the interrupted presidential vote, but he would nonetheless
push for a speedy constitutional amendment allowing the president
to be elected by popular suffrage rather than the house.


He said his party would propose a renewed round of presidential
balloting in lieu of the inconclusive one held Friday and
annulled on a technicality earlier Tuesday by the Constitutional
Court.


"We will apply to parliament at once, tomorrow (Wednesday)
morning, to bring general elections forward," Erdogan told a news
conference after a meeting of his Justice and Development Party's
(AKP) leadership.


"For us, the election date could be June 24 or July 1 because
those are the earliest possible dates," he said.


Legislative elections are currently set for November 4.


The first-round presidential vote was declared invalid after the
court ruled that a quorum of 367 lawmakers was required when the
balloting was held with a sole candidate running, Foreign
Minister Abdullah Gul, who is a member of the AKP.


Parliamentary minutes show there were only 361 lawmakers present
for the vote, and it appears unlikely that the quorum will be met
on Thursday.


"A new timetable will be set in parliament for presidential
elections in line with the court ruling and the parliament's
speaker's office has called a meeting of the advisory board on
Wednesday," Erdogan said.


He gave no dates, but media reports said the AKP would propose to
hold the first round of voting Thursday, the second on May 7, the
third on May 11 and the fourth on May 15.


"We will wait and see the result of the first round. We believe
the best way in this issue is to ask the public", Erdogan said.


He said his party would work to amend the constitution to allow
for a two-round popular vote to elect a president for a once-
renewable five-year mandate to replace the current single seven-
year stint.


Erdogan also suggested that legislative elections be held every
four years instead of five, and a constitutional amendment that
would lower the age of parliamentary eligibility to 25 by the
upcoming general election.


The presidential elections triggered a deep crisis in Turkey,
with the military, wary of the AKP and its Islamist roots,
threatening to intervene if the country's secular system is
threatened.

