

President George W. Bush on Tuesday vetoed a bill setting an Iraq
withdrawal timeline, defying the US Congress exactly four years
after he declared major combat over in a "Mission Accomplished"
speech.


"Setting a deadline for withdrawal is setting a date for failure,
and that would be irresponsible," he said as protesters outside
the White House chanted "stop the war now!" and "how many more
will die?".


Bush -- who has signalled no willingness to compromise on his
plan to escalate the unpopular war -- was to meet top lawmakers
at the White House on Wednesday to map the way forward after
killing the legislation.


The measure included emergency spending for the war but tied that
to a call for US combat troops to start coming home October 1 and
most of them to be withdrawn by March 2008. Like previous
measures was larded with funds for unrelated projects and
programs.


"Members of the House and Senate passed a bill that substitutes
the opinions of politicians for the judgment of our military
commanders, so a few minutes ago, I vetoed the bill," Bush said.


Democratic leaders, due at the White House on Wednesday in the
next phase of the unprecedented Iraq spending showdown, quickly
slammed Republican Bush's move and accused him of trapping US
soldiers "in the middle of an open-ended civil war."


"The president wants a blank check. The Congress is not going to
give it to him," House Speaker Nancy Pelosi warned at a joint
public appearance with Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.


"If the president thinks that by vetoing this bill, he will stop
us from working to change the direction of this war, he is
mistaken," said Reid. "Now he has an obligation to explain his
plan to responsibly end this war."


Bush had long signalled he would kill the 124 billion dollar
measure -- Democrats appear to lack the votes to override his
veto -- and insisted that his foes, not his veto, were keeping
much-needed funds from the troops.


The House of Representatives and Senate had approved the
legislation by mostly party-line votes, with Democrats urging
Bush to "listen to the American people" as polls showed a
majority want the war to end.


The veto came exactly four years after the US president, speaking
aboard a US aircraft carrier under a giant "Mission Accomplished"
banner, declared that the March 19 US-led invasion had yielded
"one victory" over terrorism.


Bush, in a carefully choreographed photo-opportunity, had told
sailors aboard the home-bound USS Abraham Lincoln that "major
combat" was over in Iraq, as US officials in Washington privately
predicted a swift US withdrawal.


When he spoke, just 139 US soldiers had been killed since the US-
led invasion launched in March 2003. Now more than 3,350 have
died in Iraq since then, and April has been the bloodiest month
of 2007 with 104 killed.


Bush, pleading for patience with his unpopular decision in
January to send more US troops to Iraq, earlier warned at the US
Central Command headquarters in Florida that a hasty withdrawal
would turn Iraq into "a cauldron of chaos."


"Our enemy -- the enemies of freedom -- love chaos. Out of that
chaos they could find new safe havens," he said. "Failure in Iraq
should be unacceptable to the civilized world. The risks are
enormous."


The White House had expressed anger that the Democrats timed
their efforts to send Bush the legislation on the anniversary of
his May 1, 2003 speech.


White House spokeswoman Dana Perino told reporters that the
timing "is a trumped-up political stunt that is the height of
cynicism."


But Democrats, including the party's 2008 presidential hopefuls,
pounded Bush over his strategy before and after his veto.


"Today, President Bush vetoed a bill that supports our troops and
ends the war in Iraq that he declared won four years ago," former
senator John Edwards said in a statement.


"Today, all the photo ops in the world can't hide the truth - the
war is still raging, and the president's mismanagement of Iraq is
still dead wrong," he said.

