

US food and drug officials were in Beijing Wednesday to step up a
joint investigation with Chinese authorities into tainted pet
food products that have killed numerous animals in the United
States.


The delegation from the US Food and Drug Administration were
meeting with their counterparts to launch the inspection into how
the chemical melamine, a substance used in fertilisers and
plastics, had found its way into wheat gluten exported to the
United States, a US embassy spokeswoman said.


The wheat gluten was used as an additive in the pet food.


"The FDA ... have sent a team to China to work with the Chinese
government to find answers about the contamination of wheat
gluten and rice products that were exported to the United
States," the spokeswoman said.


The team was meeting with "appropriate" Chinese officials on the
matter, despite an ongoing week-long May Day holiday, she added.


The tainted wheat gluten has been found in nearly 100 brands of
US pet food. Melamine is used to enhance nitrogen-levels in the
food and is believed to have led to kidney failure in pets.


Adding melamine to food products is illegal in the United States,
but appears to be widely used in China. It is not known to be
toxic to humans.


The Chinese on Monday agreed to a joint investigation into the
issue.


"The Chinese side is very concerned with the US animal food
pollution incident that has led to the deaths of some animals and
has launched an investigation and adopted a series of emergency
measures," the General Administration of Quality, Supervision and
Inspection said in a statement on its website.


"The Chinese side will respect scientific findings and in the
spirit of friendly cooperation work together with the US side to
launch a joint investigation."


On March 30 the FDA ordered its field personnel to detain wheat
gluten imported from China's Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology
Development Co because it contained melamine.


China initially denied that the country had exported contaminated
pet food ingredients, but last month launched an investigation
into the tainted products and has worked to ban the use of
melanine in animal food products.


Thirty-eight pets are believed to have died after eating tainted
pet food in Oregon state and the nationwide US death toll from
the crisis may be far higher, a US veterinarian official said
last month.

