

Geoff Hoon, the British defence secretary during the March 2003
invasion of Iraq, admitted in an interview published Wednesday
that Britain and the United States had not properly planned what
would happen after the invasion.


Hoon, now in the lesser position of minister for Europe, also
said that he and his colleagues had disagreed with their American
counterparts over key decisions taken in the Iraq war, but had
under-estimated the role of the US vice- president.


Speaking to The Guardian, Hoon conceded that "we didn't plan for
the right sort of aftermath."


"Maybe we were too optimistic about the idea of the streets being
lined with cheering people," he said.


He continued to say that history would have to be the judge of
whether coalition planners should have anticipated the level of
violence between rival Sunni and Shiite communities in Iraq.


"Given what we know now, I suppose the answer is that we should
(have known), but we did not know that at the time."


Britain's military intervention has proved politically costly for
the governing Labour party, with the war often cited as one of
the principal reasons for a drop in support for the government.


A poll in The Independent this week showed that 69 percent of
British voters thought the war would define Prime Minister Tony
Blair's legacy.


There are about 7,100 British troops in Iraq, most of whom are in
and around the southern Iraqi city of Basra, though the
government has said it wants to withdraw about 1,600 this year.


Hoon told the daily that US Vice-President Dick Cheney wielded
more power than the British had anticipated, in comparison to
then defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld and secretary of state
Colin Powell, in terms of President George W. Bush's decision-
making.


Sometimes, Prime Minister Tony Blair "had made his point with the
president, and I'd made my point with Don and (then foreign
secretary) Jack (Straw) had made his point with Colin, and the
decision actually came out of a completely different place."


"And you think: what did we miss? I think we missed Cheney."


He said that Britain disagreed with key American decisions to
disband the Iraqi army and the removal of all Iraqi civil
servants who were members of the Baath party from Iraq's
ministries.


On the subject of the dismissal of Iraq's military, Hoon said
that Britain "certainly argued against (the United States) ... I
would have called it the other way."


Hoon added that Britain also saw the decision to dismiss Iraqi
government employees "in a different way" to the United States:
"I think we felt that a lot of the Baath people were first and
foremost local government people ... they weren't fanatical
supporters of (Iraqi dictator) Saddam (Hussein)."


He told The Guardian that he still had "real difficulty"
understanding why pre- war intelligence warning that Saddam was
stockpiling weapons of mass destruction proved to be false, but
has "gradually come to the acceptance" that the weapons do not
exist.


Asked about the possibility of a public apology, Hoon said:
"That's the whole thing about apologising, and saying we were
wrong -- it's quite hard."


"At the end of the day, I defy anyone to go through what we went
through and come to a different conclusion."


Hoon's comments come just a day before crucial elections to some
local councils in England, as well as the Scottish and Welsh
regional assemblies, where Labour is expected to fare poorly.


The British defence ministry declined to comment on the
interview.

