

Canadian police overheard Sikh militants in secret tapes
foreshadow the 1985 Air India bombing that killed 329 people,
days before one of the world's worst airline attacks, an inquiry
was told Tuesday.


But authorities were unaware of threats to the jetliner, or how
the obscure comments gleaned from members of two groups -- now
banned in Canada -- about India's attack on the Golden Temple at
Amritsar were relevant until it was too late.


"Once I heard of the explosion, that's the thought I had
(connecting the two elements)," former Vancouver Police
Department officer Don McLean testified.


Vancouver police were investigating an unrelated case, he said,
when they secretly recorded the exchange between members of the
Sikh militant group Babbar Khalsa and the International Sikh
Youth Federation.


"No ambassadors have been killed. What are you going to do?
Nothing?" one man laments in Punjabi language in the June 12,
1985 recording.


"You will see something done in two weeks," the other replies.


Eleven days later, a blast killed 329 passengers and crew members
of Air India Flight 182, including 280 Canadians, off the coast
of Ireland.


Prosecutors blamed radical orthodox Sikh immigrants to Canada,
saying the bombing was payback for the Indian government's army
attack on the Sikhs' Golden Temple in June 1984 .


But the only person jailed over the airline attack was bomb-maker
Inderjit Singh Reyat, who now faces perjury charges over his
testimony at the trial of two men acquitted in the plot in 2005.


The alleged plot mastermind, Talwinder Singh Parmar, founder of
the Babbar Khalsa, was killed in a police shootout in India in
1992. Ottawa declared Babbar Khalsa and the youth federation
terror groups in 2003.


Since the bombing, Canadian governments have insisted the threat
was not clear.


But the commission heard Monday that two informers had alerted
Vancouver police of a plot "to place a bomb on an Air India
plane," months before the disaster.


One of them testified behind a curtain Monday that he was offered
200,000 dollars stuffed in a suitcase to place a bomb aboard a
plane, but declined.


All of that information was passed on to the fledgling Canadian
Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) and federal police, officers
testified.


The inquiry's lead counsel Mark Freiman commented Monday: "It's
much easier to apply hindsight."


Later this week, two former CSIS agents are scheduled to testify
at the inquiry which opened in September to probe the Canadian
government's failure to prevent the bombing and to prosecute all
those responsible.


The spy agency's inability to stop the June 1985 bombing plot
despite the warning signals has been a continual frustration for
the victims' families.

