

The US spy chief urged Congress Tuesday to modernize a nearly 30
-year-old law on electronic surveillance to better counter
threats including terrorism and economic spying from China and
Russia.


US Director of National Intelligence Michael McConnell said the
1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) has not kept up
with developments in communications technology.


"In today's environment, the FISA legislation is not agile enough
to handle the country's intelligence needs," McConnell told the
Senate Intelligence Committee.


The law needs to be modernized amid "significant threats from Al-
Qaeda" and other extremists "aligned with it," he said.


"A significant number of states also conduct economic espionage,"
he said.


"China and Russia's foreign intelligence services are among the
most aggressive in collecting against sensitive and protected US
systems, facilities, and development projects approaching Cold
War levels."


A top Justice Department official told the Senate panel that FISA
should be amended to redefine the term "electronic surveillance."


"We can and should amend FISA to restore its original focus on
foreign intelligence activities that substantially implicate the
privacy interests of individuals in the United States," said
Kenneth Wainstein, assistant attorney general for national
security.


"The best way to restore that focus is to redefine the term
'electronic surveillance' in a technology-neutral manner," he
said.


"Rather than focusing, as FISA does today, on how a communication
travels or where it is intercepted, we should define FISA's scope
by reference to who is the subject of the surveillance."


But critics of President George W. Bush's administration worry
that proposals to modify FISA would legalize a controversial
domestic eavesdropping program.


In January, the administration backpedaled on a spying program
allowing the National Security Agency to eavesdrop, without a
warrant, on phone calls and emails between individuals in the
United States and anyone abroad suspected of terrorism links.


Months after heavy criticism from civil rights groups after the
New York Times revealed the program in 2005, the administration
put it under the supervision of the ultra-secretive Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court.

