

Brief portraits of 2008 Republican presidential contenders who
will line up for their first head-to-head debate Thursday at the
Ronald Reagan Presidential library in California.


- Rudolph Giuliani, 62, the former mayor of New York, currently
tops opinion polls of the Republican field, with a campaign
rooted in his much-praised leadership as his city reeled in the
mournful aftermath of the September 11 attacks in 2001. Giuliani
nevertheless faces several challenges. He is seen as far more
liberal, on issues like gun control and abortion, than many core
conservative voters. His three marriages, and scandals
surrounding Bernard Kerik, the New York police commissioner under
Giuliani, may also provide angles of attack for his rivals.


- Senator John McCain, 70, a hero of the Vietnam war, was shot
down and spent years in the notorious Hanoi Hilton prison.
Vanquished by President George W. Bush in the campaign for the
2000 Republican nomination, McCain was originally the presumed
establishment favorite for 2008. But his staunch support for
Bush's unpopular Iraq war strategy, and a lacklustre showing in
early fundraising, have some observers questioning whether his
chance has gone.


- Mitt Romney, 60, is a former Massachusetts governor who has the
jammed contacts book of a business executive and is credited with
saving the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics when they were hit
by scandal. He is accused of ditching previous liberal positions
to appeal to conservatives, and some analysts believe Republicans
may be put off by his Mormon faith.


- Sam Brownback, 50, a senator from Kansas and a devout Roman
Catholic, is an outspoken advocate for global human rights. He
has emerged as a voice for North Korean refugees and fierce
opponent of Stalinist leader Kim Jong Il.


- Jim Gilmore, 57, is a former Virginia governor seen as a long-
shot candidate for the nomination, and appears to hope to build a
support base among fiscal and religious conservatives.


- Mike Huckabee, 51, like ex-president Bill Clinton, is a former
governor of Arkansas who hails from the town of Hope. He often
speaks out on education, and is known for losing dozens of pounds
in a weight loss program.


- Duncan Hunter, 58, is a California lawmaker and former chairman
of the House of Representatives Armed Services Committee.


- Ron Paul, 71, who represents Texas in the House, describes
himself as a libertarian and is an outspoken critic of the Iraq
war.


- Tom Tancredo, 61 is a Colorado Congressman who has adopted a
hard line on illegal immigration.


- Tommy Thompson, 65, is former secretary of health and human
services in President George W. Bush's cabinet and a former
governor of the midwestern state of Wisconsin.

