

Google has asked a US judge to throw out a billion-dollar
copyright lawsuit by US entertainment giant Viacom, claiming that
the suit threatens today's Internet lifestyle.


In a formal response Monday to a lawsuit Viacom filed in federal
court in New York City in March, the California-based Internet
search colossus denied that its popular video website YouTube is
involved in "massive" copyright infringement.


Google shielded itself with the US Digital Millennium Copyright
Act, legislation passed in 1998 that says Internet firms are not
responsible for what Internet users put on websites.


Viacom charges in its lawsuit that Google and YouTube are
intentionally ignoring its copyrights by not stopping users from
putting clips of its television programs on the globally popular
video-sharing website.


"By seeking to make carriers and hosting providers liable for
Internet communications, Viacom's complaint threatens the way
hundreds of millions of people legitimately exchange information,
news, entertainment, and political and artistic expression,"
Google said in its legal response.


"Google and YouTube respect the importance of intellectual
property rights, and not only comply with their safe harbor
obligations under the DMCA, but go well above and beyond what the
law requires."


Google asked the judge to immediately deny Viacom's claims and
order the New York-based entertainment company to pay Google's
legal fees and whatever other damages the court sees fit.


Google said it was confident the courts would take its side
against Viacom, whose empire includes many youth-oriented
networks like MTV and VH1 along with the Paramount and DreamWorks
movie studios.


Viacom said YouTube had "built a lucrative business out of
exploiting the devotion of fans to others' creative works in
order to enrich itself and its corporate parent Google."


"Their business model, which is based on building traffic and
selling advertising off of unlicensed content, is clearly illegal
and is in obvious conflict with copyright laws," Viacom said when
filing the suit.


Google, however, says YouTube "offers real opportunities to
rights holders" by letting them interact with users, promote
their content to a "young and growing audience" and tap into the
online advertising market.


The suit seeks more than one billion dollars in damages, plus an
injunction prohibiting Google and YouTube from further copyright
infringement.


It alleges that almost 160,000 unauthorized clips of Viacom's
programming have been available on the website, which has
attracted millions of followers during its two-year existence.


In February, YouTube agreed to remove more than 100,000
highlights from Viacom television programs after a promised
copyright protection system was not installed on the website.


"YouTube can do plenty," Viacom said in an online statement.


"It already monitors its website to filter out pornography and
hate speech. It can do the same for copyrighted works. YouTube is
withholding filtering simply to gain a business advantage in
negotiations."


YouTube has stepped up its efforts to remove copyrighted
material, and to tie up with entertainment providers, since it
was bought by Google for 1.65 billion dollars worth of stock
November.


The website says it has more than 1,000 partnerships with content
providers, including heavyweight broadcasters the BBC, NBC, CBS
and Fox.


Viacom maintains it had no choice but to sue after "a great deal
of unproductive negotiation" with YouTube.


Industry insiders suspect Viacom is using the lawsuit as a
negotiating tactic and has no intention of taking the matter to
trial.


The Viacom stable includes Nickelodeon, Comedy Central and more
than 130 other television networks around the world, plus an
array of websites.

