

News Corp. launched a five-billion dollar takeover bid Tuesday
for publishing firm Dow Jones in a bold move to add the
prestigious Wall Street Journal business daily to Rupert
Murdoch's sprawling media empire.


News Corp. said in a statement it made "a friendly offer" to
acquire all of the outstanding shares of Dow Jones for 60 dollars
each in cash, or in a combination of cash and News Corp. stock.


Murdoch, appearing on his Fox News channel later in the day, said
he wants the prize of the Wall Street Journal: "We feel this is
the greatest newspaper in America. One of the greatest in the
world."


Murdoch said the bid represented "a big, generous offer" to Dow
Jones.


Dow Jones in a separate statement described the action as "an
unsolicited proposal" and said it would study the offer.


The offer would be a 63 percent premium to the most recent share
price, for the company that publishes the Wall Street Journal and
its international and online editions, and has other media
interests worldwide.


The Dow Jones statement said the board of directions and members
and trustees of the Bancroft family, who hold a majority of
voting shares, "are evaluating the proposal" and added that
"there can be no assurance that this evaluation will lead to any
transaction."


The Journal reported that a family representative indicated there
were enough shares to block any takeover, but that it was not
clear if this was an effort to get a sweetened bid.


Dow Jones shares rocketed 55 percent to close at 56.36 dollars a
share after the news.


George Sakarellis, analyst at GARP Research, said the Bancroft
family in the past has rejected other takeover offers and as a
result he was "not surprised" to see shares below the 60-dollar
level of the bid.


"We would not expect to see a bidding war star at 60 dollars per
share," the analyst said. "Should the Bancroft family shun the
offer, the stock could fall back to the mid-30-dollar range."


The takeover, if successful, would give the Australian-born
Murdoch control of a legendary US business daily and its other
assets.


With his News Corp. umbrella, Murdoch controls the Fox television
and film studios, and BSkyB in Britain. In newspapers, the
company owns British-based dailies including The Sun and The
Times, as well as the New York Post and The Australian. In 2005
he also bought the MySpace social networking website.


The move comes at a time of turmoil in the US newspaper industry,
with circulation slipping as more consumers turn to the Internet
and other media.


A survey this week showed US daily newspaper circulation is down
2.1 percent from a year ago.


Fewer than half of all US adults currently read a daily
newspaper, a far cry from 80.8 percent in 1964.


The Wall Street Journal is the second biggest US daily, and its
circulation edged up slightly over the past year to just over two
million.


Rick Edmonds, a media business analyst at the Poynter Institute,
said the Journal is "a trophy property and he (Murdoch) likes to
have those things."


Edmonds said the acquisition of the Journal would also mesh well
with Murdoch's plans to launch a TV business channel.


Dow Jones traces its history back to 1882 when Charles Henry Dow
and others started producing hand-written news bulletins in the
Wall Street area. It has long been under the control of the
Bancrofts, the descendants of Charles Barron, who bought the
company in 1902.


The company created the first Dow Jones stock index in 1884,
which remains a key benchmark for Wall Street.


Edmonds said that the offer is "eyecatching" because of its size.


"It may not be an offer they can't refuse, but it is hard to
resist," Edmonds said.


Another big news media group, Tribune Co. announced last month it
would go private in a deal giving control of the publisher of the
Chicago Tribune to real estate mogul Sam Zell.


Last year, Knight-Ridder Newspapers was bought out and broken
into several pieces, placing prestigious dailies such as the
Miami Herald and Philadelphia Inquirer under new ownership.


Elsewhere in the media sector, Readers' Digest was sold to a
private equity firm for 2.4 billion dollars. And reports have
been swirling that other papers, including the Boston Globe,
owned by the New York Times, might be up for sale.

