

Rain trickles down into the cracked, yellowish soil, bringing
much-needed relief to vines on the baking hillsides of England's
South Downs, and nourishing a sparkling wine industry.


"Don't think of this area as wet. Think of it as dry and warm,"
said Michael Roberts, one of an elite breed of English
viticulteur who is transforming his country's poor winemaking
reputation with award-winning whites.


Roberts and others here chalk up their success to a "warm
microclimate" in the Downs of Sussex and other parts of southern
England, which they say is warming further in line with global
trends.


The high hills to the south of his RidgeView Estate, beyond which
lie the coastal resort of Brighton and the English Channel, help
keep the weather mild in the winter and comparatively hot and dry
in the summer.


Roberts and others also attribute their success to the chalk and
limestone soil common to both southern England and the French
Champagne region which holds and distributes moisture well.


As the crow flies, the South Downs and Champagne are little more
than 100 kilometers (60 miles) apart and both regions were once
steeped in a primordial sea that left them with the same mineral
deposits.


More broadly, there are now 325 vinyards in England and 25 in
Wales producing two million bottles annually, with sparkling wine
accounting for 15 percent, according to English Wine Producers
(EWP), the marketing body.


EWP marketing manager Julia Trustam Eve predicted English
vinyards will produce 3.5 million bottles of sparkling wine by
2015. "Sparkling wines are definitely going to take over," she
said.


The Downs, which undulate down from London to the south coast,
provide particularly fertile ground for viticulteurs.


Denbies Wine Estate, England's largest winery and among the
larger in Europe, stands on 265 acres in the North Downs of
Surrey, where the firm says winemaking dates back to Roman times.


It now produces 400,000 bottles of white, red, rose and sparkling
wine annually, but aims to raise output considerably by expanding
to 300 acres of vines in 2012.


It said its decision was bolstered when it recorded its first bud
burst on April 14 this year, two weeks earlier than usual.


"Without doubt, climate change has contributed to the growth
trend we have been experiencing in the UK," said Christopher
White, general manager of Denbies.


Further south Roberts -- a 63-year-old self-confessed
Francophile, wine and culinary enthusiast -- said conditions here
now produce sparkling wines that rival champagne and outclass
those from California, South Africa and Australia.


For one thing, he said, the grapes in those three countries have
to be harvested early -- leaving the final product duller and
less fruity -- because they ripen too quickly in hotter
conditions.


"We don't compete with New World wines," added the portly, white-
haired entrepreneur.


Since his vines were first planted in 1994, he said there have
been many days every year with temperatures soaring above 30
degrees Celsius, something virtually unheard of in the three
previous decades.


The English growing season is now "closer than ever in being in
line with the traditional French season," he said.


Effervescents du Monde, a French-based body which promotes
sparkling wines including champagne, acknowledges that France is
experiencing earlier harvests than in the past.


Henri-Laurent Arnould, president of Efferscents du Monde, told
AFP: "The south of England is becoming a wine-producing region
whose quality of harvest is improving regularly because the
harvests are earlier."


Roberts uses the three classic French grape varieties for
sparkling wine: Chardonnay "for backbone and finesse," Pinot Noir
"for body and depth" and Pinot Meunier for "richness of fruit."


And since the first bottles were sold in 2000, RidgeView
sparkling wines have won five silver medals from Effervescents du
Monde.


"We're waiting for gold," said a smiling Roberts, a chartered
accountant who launched his winery with the sale of his
successful computer start-up to the US firm Control Data.


His wine business struck gold, so to speak, when it turned a
profit with its first sales back in 2000, and is buoyed further
with the critical success of its wines.


He sells to supermarkets and high-end shops in Britain as well as
to customers in Denmark and Japan, but demand has risen so much
he has had to turn down requests, including from the United
States and Sweden.


"It's insatiable. Every single one of our customers is rationed,"
he added.


Roberts' 30 acres produce about 50,000 bottles a year, all
sparkling white, with production expected to increase to 120,000
annually in 2010, rising to 150,000 and 180,000 bottles in each
year after that.


With no more room in its native French region, Roberts said,
champagne house Pierson Whitaker has planted vines in southern
England in order to expand sparkling wine production -- even if
laws bar it from being called champagne.


Land, at least for now, is a fraction of the price in Champagne.


With the future bright, Roberts hopes to start a dynasty, handing
down to his son Simon and his Australian wife, who would in turn
pass it on to their three young sons.


"We would like to see the family carrying on," he said.

