

Creative Technology slipped into the red in the third quarter to
March, dragged down by worse-than-expected sales in the key US
and Asian markets, the Singapore digital entertainment products
maker said Wednesday.


For the January-March period, the company incurred a net loss of
23.61 million US dollars, compared with a profit of 92.12 million
dollars in the previous quarter, the Nasdaq and locally-listed
company said.


Compared to last year, the net loss in the third quarter is
smaller than the 114.33 million dollars loss recorded in the
March quarter in 2006.


Sales in the third quarter were 183.83 million dollars, down from
424.36 million dollars in the previous quarter and 225.66 million
dollars a year ago.


"Our sales for the quarter in the United States and Asia came in
below our expectations, with worldwide revenues coming in at
183.8 million," said Craig McHugh, president of subsidiary
Creative Labs Inc.


The Singapore outfit, which has struggled to compete against
Apple's iconic iPod, saw its market share in the Americas region
falling further, to 32 percent in the third quarter from 34
percent in the previous quarter and from 41 percent a year ago.


In Asia and the rest of the world, Creative's market share was 19
percent, up from 15 percent in the previous quarter but down from
21 percent a year ago.


During the third quarter, Creative incurred restructuring charges
of 3.5 million dollars to reduce its global headcount by 10
percent as part of the company's plans to lower operating
expenses.


The company is aiming to cuts its operating expenses to 50
million dollars by the end of the September quarter, said McHugh.


With the cost-cutting measures and range of new products in the
current quarter, Creative aims to return to profitability in the
second-half of the 2007, he said.


Founded in 1981, Creative gained fame for its SoundBlaster cards
that allowed personal computers to be used as home entertainment
centres but it has struggled since venturing into consumer
electronics.


In the MP3 market where the company has invested heavily in,
Creative has found it an uphill battle to challenge iPod, the
world's most popular digital music player which sold over 10
million units in the first three months of the year.


At 9:15 am (0115 GMT), shares of Creative were trading at 9.20
Singapore dollars (6.09 US) each, down 10 Singapore cents from
Monday. Markets in Singapore were closed Tuesday for May Day.

