

Oil prices fell Tuesday on world markets as investors shook off
the latest news of kidnappings in Nigeria and locked in some of
the hefty gains from the past week.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, slid 1.31 dollars to close at 64.40 dollars per
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
retreated 65 cents to settle at 67.00 dollars per barrel.


Trading was quiet on Tuesday with many Asian and European markets
shut owing to the May Day holiday, dealers said.


Those who did carry out deals focused on fresh supply concerns in
Nigeria -- the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter with a daily
output of about 2.6 million barrels.


Nigerian militants Tuesday seized four Italians, a US national
and a Croatian oil worker from a floating storage vessel in the
country's volatile oil-rich south and warned of further
kidnappings.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) claimed responsibility for
the attack, saying it was intended to shame the government of
outgoing President Olusegun Obasanjo, who is stepping down after
serving two terms.


Mike Fitzpatrick at Man Financial said there are a number of
geopolitical factors that could affect prices, including
Venezuela's formal move to seize the vast Orinoco River basin
oilfields.


But he said the market lacked upward momentum.


The actions in Venezuela "may be interpreted as bullish for oil
prices," the analyst said.


"Right now there is very little in the world to point to as a
source of potential relief for oil prices. Naturally, this begs
the question, why aren't prices even higher? The market is a bit
overdone and in need of a fresh positive fundamental
developments."


In the wake of the disappointing US economic growth numbers last
week, he said "this may be convenient time to shed length.
Technically, the crude oil chart is showing a market that is
clearly tired. The inability to strike out into newer, higher
territory, is indicative of participants' reluctance to hold
positions at these price levels."


Michael Davies, an energy analyst at the Sucden brokerage firm,
said the kidnappings in Nigeria "highlighted the instability in
the region, with the country's output still below full capacity
and the most recent presidential elections have only made the
situation worse, with foreign observers saying that votes rigging
was commonplace."


Crude futures had meanwhile fallen on Monday due to profit-taking
after sharp gains last week on news of a possible terrorist plot
in key crude producer Saudi Arabia, dealers said.


Prices had surged before the weekend after Saudi Arabia announced
it had foiled an attack on oil facilities, which was linked to
Al-Qaeda.


Market attention was meanwhile starting to turn to Wednesday's
upcoming weekly update on the state of energy stockpiles in key
consumer the United States, traders said.


All eyes are on US gasoline or petrol reserves heading into the
peak-demand driving season, which kicks off at the end of May,
when many Americans take to the roads for their summer holidays.

