

Australia's wine industry Wednesday announced plans to increase
sales by 4.0 billion dollars (3.3 billion US) within five years,
in part by shaking off its image of merely value-for-money plonk.


Winemakers said part of the strategy to boost domestic and export
sales to 30 billion dollars by 2011 would be to try to get
drinkers to "trade-up" to fine wines or provincial specialties
when making a selection at a bottle shop.


"At the moment, we're pigeonholed -- in the UK to 4.99 (pounds)
and in the USA to 6.99-7.99 (dollars)," said strategy chief Kevin
McLintock.


"And our success is actually our biggest hindrance. The consumer
says, 'If I'm drinking wine and it's under 10 (dollars) my first
choice is Australian.


"We're not yet first choice in the other price points above 10
dollars."


McLintock, who headed the joint Australian Wine and Brandy
Corporation and Winemakers' Federation of Australia team which
devised the strategy, said the gains would not be simply the
result of higher wine prices.


The key is growth in sales by value in real terms, something
which has not been much in evidence in recent years, he said.


But McLintock, who is also deputy chairman of McWilliams Wines,
acknowledged that wines would become more expensive as
Australia's long-running drought slashed grape production by 40
percent this year.


"It's an economic fact that when you have a massive shortage like
we've got, you're going to get price movement," he told AFP.


"The price of grapes in '07 will move up, the price of grapes in
'08 is going to be significantly higher."


While grape crush production in 2006 was about 1.9 million
tonnes, it would drop to 1.3 million tonnes this year, he said.


"The demand is for 1.5 million tonnes so you're 200,000 tonnes
below just average demand," he said.


McLintock, said while emerging markets such as Asia and East
Europe were long- term objectives, the industry's major 11
markets would be the focus in the short term.


These are Australia, the UK, the US, Canada, Germany, the
Netherlands, Denmark, Japan, New Zealand, Ireland and Singapore.


"You've got to go to the markets which are giving you the maximum
growth and the highest return on investment," he said.

