

An Australian senator apologised Wednesday amid a storm of
protest after he described the country's leading opposition
female politician as "deliberately barren" and therefore unfit to
govern.


Bill Heffernan, a close friend of Prime Minister John Howard, had
said earlier in the day that his comments about Labor Party
deputy leader Julia Gillard were uncouth but that he stood by
them.


He told The Bulletin magazine he would not retreat from remarks
he made last year when he said that because Gillard had chosen to
be childless she was unable to connect with the public.


"I won't walk away from that," he said. "So rude, crude and
unattractive as it was ... if you're a leader, you've got to
understand your community.


"One of the great understandings in a community is family, and
the relationship between mum, dads and a bucket of nappies."


But within hours, as outrage over his remarks grew and Howard and
other government colleagues distanced themselves from his
remarks, Heffernan issued an apology.


"I apologise to Julia Gillard and anyone else who was offended by
my completely inappropriate remarks," he told the national AAP
news agency.


He would not say what had brought about his change of heart.


Gillard, a former lawyer who would become deputy prime minister
should Labor win power in this year's election, had earlier
dismissed Heffernan as irrelevant.


"Mr Heffernan, a bit like the Howard government overall, is a man
who is stuck in the past. I will get on with my life and Mr
Heffernan can make whatever comments he likes," she said.


The prime minister had brushed off calls for him to discipline
Heffernan but said whether or not a politician had children was
not an issue.


"Bill is a very good friend of mine and he remains a very dear
friend of mine, but on something like this he's not speaking for
me or for the government," Howard told Sky News.


The Labor Party attacked Heffernan's comments as backward and
outlandish.


"Senator Heffernan's comments are rude and insulting to women,"
Labor frontbencher Jenny Macklin said.


"I'm sure the prime minister would not want such a comment made
about Helen Clark, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, or any
other woman. It's just not correct or helpful."

