

After four decades of fighting poverty, the Asian Development
Bank is considering an ambitious overhaul to try to safeguard its
relevance in a rapidly shifting economic landscape.


With extreme poverty expected to have been largely conquered in
Asia by the end of the next decade, a key issue for the ADB at
its annual meeting this weekend in Kyoto will be how to sharpen
its focus to keep up with the times.


"The Asian economies are growing quite fast and that means that
absolute poverty will be substantially reduced by 2020," ADB
president Haruhiko Kuroda told AFP in a recent interview.


But he said many people would still be struggling to get by on
just two or three dollars a day even if their incomes rise above
the dollar-a-day line.


"And even if income poverty is substantially reduced, child
mortality rates, HIV/AIDS, clean water, sanitation -- a lot of
non-income related Millennium Development Goals will not be
achieved even by 2015 or 2020," Kuroda said.


An outside panel of experts last month urged the ADB to
"radically transform itself", estimating that by 2020 widespread
absolute poverty will have been beaten in most Asian countries.


They said the development bank should increase its focus on
supporting more equitable and environmentally sustainable growth,
and take a more regional or global approach instead of
concentrating on individual countries.


"Their argument, although very bold, I think is basically
correct," said Kuroda, a former Japanese vice minister of finance
for international affairs who took the helm of the Manila-based
development bank in February 2005.


"How to reduce poverty so much by 2020 and how to reform
ourselves so as to respond to the changing needs of our
developing countries -- that is a big challenge," he added.


The ADB's primary role when it was established in 1966 was to
borrow money from the capital markets to lend to developing Asian
economies that might struggle to raise affordable funds on their
own.


But many Asian nations can now easily tap capital markets
themselves.


Singapore and South Korea, for instance, have already become
donor countries to the ADB, whose biggest shareholders are the
United States and Japan, followed by China and India.


Asian nations have also accumulated vast foreign currency
reserves that they are now considering putting to better use to
aid their development.


"Over the next decade many countries could become donor countries
but I must say there are many countries like India, Pakistan and
Bangladesh that will continue to borrow," said Kuroda.


And while some fast-growing economies may need less borrowing to
fight poverty, there will still be a huge need for investment in
energy efficient infrastructure, he added.


"Our assistance could be scaled up rather than scaled down," he
said, noting that the ADB's lending of 6.82 billion dollars in
2006 was dwarfed by Asia's infrastructure investment needs of
some 300 billion dollars a year.


The four-day ADB meeting, which gets underway Friday, will also
assess the health of the Asian economies a decade after the
regional financial crisis, as well as prospects for further
financial integration.


Last year the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations
along with China, Japan and South Korea agreed to study the
creation of a single Asian currency akin to the euro, although
little progress is expected any time soon.


Kuroda said a common Asian currency was a "long-term vision."


"The single currency even in Europe took more than 30 years after
discussion started. In Asia it would take even more," he said.


ASEAN ministers will meet again Saturday on the sidelines of the
ADB meeting to discuss how to bolster the system of bilateral
currency swaps that was introduced in 2000 in a bid to prevent
another regional financial crisis.

