

Down-at-home, reliable Canadian maple syrup is getting a modern
make-over as it woos gourmet cooks in such recipes as Peking duck
and creme brulee proving it's more than just a topping for plain
pancakes.


Inspired by producers keen to shed old cliches and supported by
restaurant owners, butchers and confectioners eager to find new
culinary uses for the sticky treat are pioneering a new food
trend.


The Federation of Quebec Maple Producers (FPAQ), which represents
more than 80 percent of the world's maple syrup gleaners,
recently inaugurated a "maple trail" in five regions of the
French-speaking province.


Thirty shops and restaurants, easily identifiable by a label
bearing a golden maple syrup drop in their windows, have already
integrated syrup in their recipes, welcoming foodies on
gastronomic adventures throughout the year.


Maple syrup lovers no longer need to wait for the trees to spill
their sap seasonally to savor maple blood sausage, maple pastries
and even maple beer.


"Maple syrup is under utilized in kitchens. It's time to make it
available not just seasonally and demonstrate its potential,"
said Genevieve Beland, director of market development for the
FPAQ.


Proof that a product which dates back to the days of aboriginal
dominance of North America, before the arrival of European
settlers, can still amaze, new "maple flakes" were launched in
September 2006 to sprinkle on salads, ice cream, coffee and won a
prize for innovation at a recent Montreal gathering of food
industry professionals.


With 36,000 tonnes sold annually, worth 190 million Canadian
dollars (163 millions USD) in 2006, maple syrup producers are no
longer content with the success of their three main commodities:
maple syrup, maple candy on a stick (la tire), and maple butter.


"We were inspired by what others have been doing with cheese (now
widely used by chefs) to cultivate its use in refined dining,"
FPAQ president Pierre Lemieux said.


In Montreal, caterer Denise Cornellier combined both in one dish:
brie with maple toffee and dried fruit.


"The goal is to promote modern uses for maple syrup, not just in
traditional sweet dishes, but to create a more subtle blend of
flavors," Cornellier explained.


The gastronomic variations of boiled sap were quickly adopted by
many of the world's top chefs, who came to this country with its
red maple leaf flag in search of inspiration.


Japan, the second largest importer of Canadian maple syrup, after
the United States, has already integrated maple syrup into its
culinary culture.


Thirty-six restaurants in Tokyo offer specialties such as "maple
oyaki" (pastry stuffed with maple syrup), said Beland, noting the
FPAQ held a maple festival in the Japanese capital in April.


And greater opportunities exist to boost exports to Germany,
already the top European consumer of maple syrup, buying five
percent of total Canadian maple exports in 2006, followed by
France with 2.4 percent, she said.


Most of it, of course, would come from Quebec, which produces 93
percent of Canada's maple syrup, followed by Ontario and New
Brunswich provinces.

