

What if the best the world can do to tackle global warming will
still cause unprecedented damage to the planet, create hundreds
of millions of "climate refugees" and destroy countless species?


The depressing proposition put forward by around 400 of the
world's top minds on climate who have gathered in Bangkok this
week to devise a master plan to tackle the problem is that there
is no more palatable option.


Under the "best-estimate" scenario being considered by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), temperatures
will eventually peak at 2-2.4 degrees Celsius (3.6-4.3 degrees
Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels.


According to the draft summary report being debated by the IPCC,
the UN's leading authority on global warming, only the most
stringent measures and urgent action will be able to limit the
rise to such a level.


If the world does not act immediately and boldly to move away
from a fossil- fuel-dominant economy and cut the amount of
climate-changing greenhouse gases being pumped into the
atmosphere, the warming will be even greater.


But even at two degrees the world is set for misery and chaos
that many people would have thought unimaginable even just a few
years ago.


"When we say keeping it (global warming) under two degrees is the
right thing to do, that's not to say that by any stretch of the
imagination that it is safe," Greenpeace climate change
campaigner Stephanie Tunmore said here.


"It's still a very dangerous situation. We are still looking at
increasing water shortages, crop failures, rising sea levels."


Two other reports released this year by the IPCC, which have
formed the basis of this week's discussions and have helped make
climate change a top global priority, detail the bleak future
even with warming limited to two degrees.


While the whole world will feel impacts, Africa will suffer more
than any other continent, according to the IPCC's second report
last month.


Hundreds of millions more Africans will face severe food and
drinkable water shortages by 2080, while people living along the
big deltas such as the Nile and the Niger would suffer from
rising sea levels, according to the IPCC.


Asia would similarly be affected by the rising sea levels, with
heavier flooding in the densely populated mega-deltas of China,
Vietnam, Bangladesh and elsewhere.


The IPCC said it was 90 percent certain that more than a billion
people in Asia would be "adversely affected" by the effects of
global warming by the 2050s.


Coral reefs and the marine life they sustain in Asia, Australia
and elsewhere will also be in grave danger, the panel said.


In Latin America, an increase of two degrees would turn eastern
Amazonia and the tropical forests of central and southern Mexico
into savannah, raising the threat of extinction for many species.


The IPCC has also warned that a two-degree increase would mean
much more to people in the developed West than simply slightly
more comfortable winters and warmer summers.


Deadly heatwaves, storms and droughts will become more frequent
while the iconic European pastime of skiing in the Alps will have
to be curtailed as snowfalls diminish.


With carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases lasting in the
atmosphere for centuries, even immediate action will not be able
to limit warming to much less than two degrees, according to the
IPCC.


And amid concerns that China and the United States do not want to
take the necessary action to limit warming to two degrees, IPCC
delegates, Europeans and environmentalists have all warned of far
more catastrophic scenarios if global powers continue to fiddle
while the world burns.

