

Top US State Department official Nicholas Burns will head to
India this month to try to wrap up a landmark nuclear pact after
talks here achieved "extensive progress," a US official said
Tuesday.


Indian Foreign Secretary Shivshankar Menon held "excellent" and
"positive" meetings with senior US officials including Burns and
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, according to State
Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


"We look forward to resolving the outstanding issues in the weeks
ahead," he said in a statement.


Burns, the US under secretary of state for political affairs,
will travel to India "in the second half of May to reach a final
agreement," McCormack said.


"Under Secretary Burns and Foreign Secretary Menon also agreed to
continue our work together to bring stability and peace to the
region," he added.


Menon said after his talks that he was "happy" with the "very
productive discussions." Looking forward to Burns' visit, he
said: "As far as I'm concerned, this is doable ... and we want to
do it as quickly as possible."


Indian embassy spokesman Rahul Chhabra said Menon and Burns
discussed "the entire gamut of Indo-US relations, including the
civilian nuclear issue."


The upbeat US tone signaled a prospective breakthrough for the
nuclear deal, which is due to take full effect next year but
which has languished since it was struck in July 2005.


The US government had expressed frustration over the pace of the
talks to implement the pact, which would give India access to US
nuclear energy technology without requiring the Asian country to
halt its atomic arms program.


The deal is the centerpiece of energy-hungry India's new
relationship with Washington after decades of Cold War tensions,
as it tries to sustain its stunning economic expansion.


In an opinion piece in Sunday's Washington Post, Burns predicted
that "within a generation, Americans may view India as one of our
two or three most important strategic partners."


Burns said that Washington considers the nuclear deal, which the
US Congress approved overwhelmingly in December, as the hallmark
of the new warmer relations.


"When fully implemented in 2008, this initiative will permit
American and international companies to begin peaceful civilian
nuclear cooperation with India for the first time in more than a
generation," he said.


But differences have persisted, chiefly over a clause which says
the United States would withdraw civil nuclear fuel supplies and
equipment if India breaches its unilateral moratorium on nuclear
testing.


Menon last week sought to dispel fears from Indian critics who
say the agreement will hamper the country's nuclear weapons
program, nine years after a round of Indian atomic tests sparked
a tit-for-tat response from Pakistan.


"Whatever we do with the US will not affect our nuclear strategic
program," he said in a report tabled in the Indian parliament on
Thursday.


Menon launched two days of talks here on Monday, meeting first
with Paula Dobriansky, the US under secretary of state for global
affairs and democracy.


The State Department described the talks as "productive," and
said they covered a range of issues from democratic values to
environmental conservation.


Indian experts warn that New Delhi must act fast on the nuclear
deal, arguing that with the US presidential elections looming
next year the accord could soon drop off the radar screen in
Washington.


One likely outcome was a compromise on the agreement's wording,
"not a compromise of interests," said G. Balachandran, a visiting
fellow at the Indian security think-tank Institute for Defence
Studies and Analyses.


Menon said he and Burns on Tuesday also discussed regional issues
including the situation in Bangladesh, where a state of emergency
rule was imposed three months ago with the an interim government
aided by the army.

