

MySpace announced Tuesday it will hold the first virtual US
presidential primary election at its youth-oriented social
networking website.


MySpace said the "virtual election" will be held the first two
days of January in 2008, ahead of real-world primary caucuses in
the US states of Iowa and New Hampshire.


"The MySpace community will give America its first presidential
primary winner in 2008," said Chris DeWolfe, CEO of MySpace.


Voting will only be open to US members of the globally popular
website, according to MySpace, which is owned by News Corp.


Users will be able to track the primary voting process after
casting their virtual vote.


"Iowa and New Hampshire may be selecting delegates, but the
MySpace vote will be the first test of where candidates stand in
the election year," said MySpace president Tom Anderson.


In May, MySpace will begin a series of monthly straw polls,
gauging where the candidates stand in the run-up to the January
primary.


Approximately 85 percent of the nearly 65 million US residents
that visit MySpace monthly are at least 18 years old, legal
voting age, according to statistics from Internet industry
tracker comScore Media Metrics.


MySpace users have displayed a higher than average tendency to
seek online information about political issues or candidates,
according to Nielsen//Netratings reports.


The announcement came just weeks after MySpace launched an Impact
Channel devoted to the 2008 US presidential election. Twelve
declared candidates have profile pages on the channel located
online at https://impact.myspace.com.


MySpace said it teamed with the organization Declare Yourself to
encouraging users to register to vote and provides tools to do so
at the website http://www.myspace.com/declareyourself.


"MySpace is establishing itself as a powerful player in the
political engagement arena by giving power to its users," said
Declare Yourself president Cherie Simon.


"When MySpace's massive reach is fueled by its strong commitment
to empower its users, it will drive millions of young people to
actively engage in their democracy by registering to vote."

