

Rome police chief Achille Serra has reacted angrily to Manchester
United's advice to travelling fans that they face a "real danger"
of attack on the sidelines of the Champions League quarter-final
first leg against Roma.


The English Premiership leaders told fans, 6,000 of whom are
expected to travel to Rome, to avoid certain areas in the Italian
capital where they could be subject to attacks from "Ultras",
hard-core Roma hooligans.


"I am astonished but also worried by Manchester United's
statements," said Serra.


"There's no doubting the fact that there have been difficulties
in managing law and order between English and Italian teams.


"But it's the job of everybody to calm things down and lower
tensions. A letter of this kind works in the opposite way, raises
tension and risks provoking incidents."


The Manchester United advice, posted on the club's official
website, recommended its fans to make use of public transport to
the stadium.


"Fans of other English clubs who have made their way
independently to the stadium have reported on a number of
occasions problems with getting back to the city centre after the
game and there is a real danger of being attacked by the 'Ultra'
fans of AS Roma," it said.


The statement also warned against taking the metro trains to the
Piazza Faminio or attempting to use the Ponte-nenni bridge "as
these are habitual routes taken by the 'Ultras' to the stadium".


Serra, who has already suspended the sale of alcohol to fans in
the Italian capital from midday Wednesday until three o'clock the
following morning, said he had been in talks with the British
ambassador in Rome to assure him that "the number of officers
who'll be on duty is proportional to the event".


"Rome is one of the safest cities in the world. Obviously, each
team has small minorities of violent supporters, but to
generalise or make this city out the way it has been in this
letter is completely wrong and does not correspond to reality.


"Rome is a civil city. The places at risk, if there are any, will
be under surveillance. But I do not accept that you cannot take
the metro or go to some places in the city."


Three fans of English Premiership side Middlesbrough were stabbed
in Rome last year when rival fans clashed before a UEFA Cup
match.

