

A British teachers' union voted Tuesday to press the government
to protect them against cyber-bullying pupils taking
inappropriate pictures of them and posting them on the Internet.


The Association of Teachers and Lecturers' annual conference
unanimously passed a motion calling on Education Secretary Alan
Johnson to take "all reasonable steps" to protect the integrity
of teachers, an ATL spokeswoman told AFP.


And websites should be "more vigilant when monitoring the
appropriateness of student comments and video clips," the motion
said.


Delegates in Bournemouth on the southern English coast heard how
pupils had used mobile phones to try taking pictures up teachers'
skirts.


Some teachers had their trousers pulled down in class as students
filmed the incident on their phones, the conference was told.


The union said it would consider legal action against websites if
libellous remarks were made about a teacher.


ATL executive and drama teacher Andy Brown said: "Comments are
one thing but what about teachers who've had images of their
heads superimposed on to gratuitous images?


"Or who have had pictures taken and posted of their cleavages or
underwear as they bend over, or who've had pictures of them when
they're socialising, or have had comments questioning their
fidelity to their partner?"


ATL general secretary Mary Bousted said she wanted a meeting with
mobile phone providers to see what could be done to stop them
being used to abuse teachers.


"There are quite a few teachers who have had their lessons taped
or videoed," she said.


"Cyber-bullying is not just pupil-to-pupil, it is also pupil-to-
teacher."


But she added: "It is virtually impossible to regulate what is on
the Internet."


Growing video-enabled mobile phone ownership has also seen a rise
in "happy slapping" pupil-on-pupil assault clips circulating
between phones and on the Internet.


"Teachers now have stronger legal powers to deal with cyber pests
as part of our continued fight against bullying," said a
Department for Education and Skills spokesman.


"They can now confiscate mobile phones which are being used in a
malicious or disruptive way. We encourage them to make full use
of this power if they suspect pupils are using technology against
them."

