

The boom in ethanol fuels in the United States and elsewhere
could have devastating effects on food prices and worsen world
hunger, a new study argues.


The study by C. Ford Runge and Benjamin Senauer of the University
of Minnesota said the rush into ethanol threatens to divert
massive amounts of corn and other food crops into biofuels.


The researcher write in the May/June edition of Foreign Affairs
that governments should stop incentives for ethanol until
biofuels can be economically produced from sources other than
corn and soybeans.


"Resorting to biofuels is likely to exacerbate world hunger,"
they said. "Several studies by economists at the World Bank and
elsewhere suggest that caloric consumption among the world's poor
declines by about half of one percent whenever the average prices
of all major food staples increase by one percent."


The researchers said the surge in energy prices along with
subsidies and incentives given by governments has pushed farmers
into diverting massive amounts of corn, oilseeds and other crops
into ethanol.


In the US, this affects corn, but in Brazil it involves sugar
cane and in Africa cassava.


"If, all other things being equal, the prices of staple foods
increased because of demand for biofuels, the number of food-
insecure people in the world would rise by over 16 million for
every percentage increase in the real prices of staple foods,"
they wrote.


"That means that 1.2 billion people could be chronically hungry
by 2025 -- 600 million more than previously predicted."


They said the biofuel craze could push up corn prices 20 percent
by 2010 and 41 percent by 2020. This could affect other crops
such as rice or wheat, since farmers are converting their fields
to corn or other plants more profitable because of their
potential for ethanol.


"In the United States, the growth of the biofuel industry has
triggered increases not only in the prices of corn, oilseeds, and
other grains but also in the prices of seemingly unrelated crops
and products," they said.


"The use of land to grow corn to feed the ethanol maw is reducing
the acreage devoted to other crops. Food processors who use crops
such as peas and sweet corn have been forced to pay higher prices
to keep their supplies secure, costs that will eventually be
passed on to consumers."


The authors said the ethanol market is further distorted by
subsidies that make diversion of crops even more profitable.


"Rather than promoting more mandates, tax breaks, and subsidies
for biofuels, the US government should make a major commitment to
substantially increasing energy efficiency in vehicles, homes,
and factories; promoting alternative sources of energy, such as
solar and wind power; and investing in research to improve
agricultural productivity and raise the efficiency of fuels
derived from cellulose," the authors said.

