

The mother of one of the British captives in Iran voiced her
shock Tuesday at seeing her son on television after he was shown
apparently confessing to trespassing in Iranian waters.


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman, 26, appeared in footage
broadcast Sunday by Iran's state-run Arabic station Al-Alam,
standing before a map of the northern Gulf, where he and 14 other
service personnel were seized at gunpoint on March 23. Britain
insists they were in Iraqi, not Iranian, territorial waters.


In separate developments Tuesday, two of the other captives were
named as Leading Seaman Chris Coe and Operator Maintainer Simon
Massey.


Carman's mother, Alison Carman, said she and her husband Paul sat
watching television through the night to catch a glimpse of their
son.


"It was a shock to see him on television but we were glad to see
he looked fit and well," she told the South Wales Evening Post
regional newspaper.


"I am pleased he looked very healthy.


"We are in touch with the Ministry of Defence on a daily basis
and they are keeping us in touch with any news."


"He is an incredibly optimistic person and I know he will remain
positive throughout this, chivvying along his mates as well."


She was speaking at the family home in Port Eynon, south Wales.
Her officer son was a local coastguard before joining the Royal
Navy four years ago.


Coe's family, from Huddersfield in northern England, said in a
statement: "We were very relieved to see our son Chris looking
safe and well on the video footage.


"We are very proud of our son and we look forward to having him
home soon."


Massey's relatives also issued a statement in which they asked
for privacy at a "very distressing time."


Meanwhile John and Julie Tindell, the parents of captured Royal
Marine Joe Tindell, said they were "immensely proud" of him and
his colleagues.


"Joe has served with the Royal Marines for the past four years,"
they told Five television.


"He is, at present, part of a small, committed team within Fleet
Protection Group, who are close friends and have already served
one tour of duty together on mainland Iraq.


`"They are all experienced, well trained and will be supporting
one another and their naval colleagues through this difficult
time."

