

Jose Mourinho has warned his Chelsea players they must not let
gamesmanship from Valencia distract them from their bid for
Champions League glory.


Mourinho believes the combustable nature of several of Valencia's
players means his team could be provoked into losing their cool
during the quarter-final first leg clash at Stamford Bridge on
Wednesday.


The Spanish club were involved in a disgraceful brawl that marred
their last 16 win over Inter Milan and Mourinho has shown his
squad a video of the match to underline exactly what kind of
tricks they could be up against.


Valencia's Carlos Marchena and David Navarro will both miss the
first leg as they serve suspensions for their roles in the fight
that erupted after the final whistle at the Mestalla. Navarro has
been banned from all football for seven months after breaking the
nose of Inter's Nicolas Burdisso.


Mourinho said: "I just told my players the same thing I always
tell them when we play against Latin teams. I tell them that
their mentality is different to the pure English mentality we
have in the Premiership, where almost nobody cheats.


"Here people try to be correct and respect opponents, but when
you go to UEFA competitions sometimes it is a bit different. You
have to be ready, to be intelligent.


"I showed them one video image of Valencia against Inter Milan.
In the fifth minute there was a duel with Zlatan Ibrahimovic and
another player and Santiago Canizares and Roberto Ayala sprinted
50 metres to try and get involved.


"It is the kind of situation where we have to be intelligent. But
they play good football and their coach Quique Sanchez Flores
seems correct so I think they willl come to play and not to
fight."


Mourinho was in combative mood as he laughed off reports in the
Spanish media that the Stamford Bridge changing room allocated to
Valencia was "like a rat- hole".


The Portuguese coach made a point of checking the room himself
before returning to the press conference to tell the assembled
reporters that, with 10 showers and three mirrors, it was
actually in excellent condition.


At least Chelsea are spending money on their facilities, because
if Mourinho is to be believed, the club's billionaire owner Roman
Abramovich will not be dipping into his vast fortune to
strengthen the squad any longer.


Abramovich has spent millions to make Chelsea into one of the
most formidable teams in Europe, but, when asked if he would like
to sign Valencia striker David Villa, Mourinho reponded by
revealing that the purse strings have been tightened.


"He (Villa) is a great player and he could play in a great team.
But Chelsea don't want to sign him. We have got two excellent
forwards as it stands.


"Also from what I hear about the price, they are asking silly
money for him. I can tell you here at Chelsea the days of
spending silly money are all over."


Whether Mourinho will be around to decide if Villa is worth his
reputed 70 million pounds price tag is another matter.


His relationship with Abramovich remains frosty and failure to
delivier either the Champions League or Premiership trophies
could be enough for the Russian to look for a new manager.


However, Mourinho believes the campaign would be a success
regardless of how much silverware he holds at the end of the
season.


He has managed to keep Chelsea in contention for four trophies
despite a series of injuries to key players including John Terry,
Petr Cech, Joe Cole and Arjen Robben, as well as dealing with the
fall-out from his fractious relationship with Abramovich.


"For me the work my players are doing in these circumstances is
brilliant," Mourinho said. "Only a team with this mentality and
the relationship between every member of the group could survive
and do what we are doing.


"We can win more things but even if we don't do it, it would be
the kind of season where at the end of it, I would have only good
words for my players and good feelings about my commitment, what
I gave and what I did to help the team have success.


"I think the problem is when people think I could do more or
didn't give my maxiumum. That is not the case."

