

The Czech Republic's centre-right government Tuesday unveiled
sweeping tax and spending reforms including the introduction of a
single 15.0 percent tax rate on earners.


The package is the first flagship reform measure for the fragile
government, which only won a vote of confidence in January thanks
to leftwing defectors, and has pledged to resign if it can not
push through its ambitious programme of changes.


"The system's free riders," will be the main victims of the
proposed changes, Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek told a forum
convened to outline the changes.


The current direction of spending is "untenable" he said, adding
that without reform the whole government budget would be
earmarked by 2013 for obligatory spending with no room for fresh
investment. "Without reform we could not have a hope of adopting
the euro," he added.


"It is the biggest tax change we have ever seen," Raiffeisenbank
analyst, Ales Michl, told AFP.


The main innovation is the introduction of an across the board
15.0 personal tax rate, representing a massive tax cut for the
highest wage earners who currently pay a top rate of 32.0
percent.


The move transforms the Czech Republic into a Central European
tax paradise for high earners although analysts warn that a
broadening of the tax base means the cut adds up to a less
dramatic 21.0-22.0 percent if calculated under current
conditions.


"But that is still a big change for top earners," chief economist
with brokerage Patria Finance, David Marek told AFP.


Company tax, currently 24.0 percent, will be cut to 19.0 percent
by 2010, putting the Czech Republic in the same tax grouping as
Slovakia and Poland, which already tax companies 19.0 percent,
but trailing Latvia with its 15.0 percent rate and Lithuania with
18.0 percent.


The reduced rate of Value Added Tax will be raised from 5.0
percent to 9.0 percent.


Ballooning social benefit payments will be stabilised, largely by
ending the automatic inflation index linking of payments,
Minister of Labour Petr Necas said.

