

China declared Tuesday that South Asia was on the brink of
"historic opportunities" and sought stepped up cooperation with
the region.


Chinese Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing made the statement as he
welcomed Beijing's new observer status at the South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).


"We all belong to the developing world, are experiencing fast
growth and facing historic opportunities of development," the
minister said at the inaugural session of a two-day meeting in
the Indian capital.


China was ready to "join hands in energy and infrastructure
sectors" with the eight nation group made up of Afghanistan,
Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and the
Maldives.


Beijing would encourage "Chinese enterprises (to move) into South
Asia," Li said.


"As close neighbours, China and SAARC countries enjoy deep
traditional friendship," Li added.


For the first time, China, Japan, South Korea, the United States
and the European Union were invited as observers to a SAARC
summit.


Analysts have said the attractive pull of the Chinese market
could help drag the rest of the region into a tighter economic
embrace and overcome political inhibitions towards economic
integration.


SAARC, set up in 1985 to speed economic development and trade,
has made little progress largely because of tensions between
India and Pakistan, which have fought three wars, two over the
disputed Muslim-majority region of Kashmir.


Li also said China was ready to discuss with SAARC ways to
cooperate on poverty alleviation and tackle disasters.


He said energy and food security as well as climate change were
all issues that would affect regional development strategies and
called for moves to harmonise grid structures and regional energy
markets.


In an oblique reference to the unrest gripping the region, the
Chinese minister added Beijing hoped that South Asian nations
would "live in harmony."


The region is wracked by political turmoil with Islamist violence
in Pakistan and Afghanistan, Muslim insurgency in Indian Kashmir
and an upsurge in fighting between Sri Lankan troops and Tamil
Tiger rebels.

