

The Czech Republic's centre-right government unveiled sweeping
tax reforms and spending cuts on Tuesday, including the
introduction of a single 15.0-percent personal tax rate.


The across-the-board 15.0 percent tax rate represents a massive
cut for the highest earners who currently pay a top rate of 32.0
percent.


The proposals, if approved by parliament, would transform the
Czech Republic into a Central European tax paradise for top
earners, although analysts said that the government had raised
taxes elsewhere.


By including new elements to calculate taxable income, the new
tax rate would be about 21.0-22.0 percent if calculated under
current conditions, chief economist with brokerage Patria
Finance, David Marek told AFP.


"But that is still a big change for top earners," he added.


Raiffeisenbank analyst Ales Michl told AFP it was "the biggest
tax change we have ever seen."


As well as the single personal tax rate, company tax will be cut
to 19.0 in stages by 2010 from the currently 24.0 percent and the
lowest rate of VAT raised from 5.0 percent to 9.0 percent.


The package is the first flagship reform measure for the fragile
government, which has pledged to resign if it can not push
through its ambitious programme of changes.


Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek said that "the system's free
riders" would be the main victims of the proposed changes.


The current direction of spending was "untenable," he said,
adding that without reform the whole government budget would
swallowed by mandatory spending by 2013 with no room for fresh
investment.


Ballooning social spending will be curbed by ending inflation-
linked rises in benefits, top state employees will have their
wages frozen and the number of government workers will be slashed
by 3.0 percent annually over the next years.


"Without these changes we would not have a hope of adopting the
euro," Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek, whose government has
conceded 2012 as the earliest possible date for switching to the
single currency.


The package is aimed at reducing the public spending deficit,
which threatens to reach 4.0 percent of gross domestic product
this year, to 3.0 percent of GDP next year.


It also seeks to cut the deficit to 2.6 percent in 2009 and 2.3
percent in 2010.


Prague had already been shown "the yellow card" by the European
Union for exceeding its promised budget deficit and debt limits
and would face the "red card" without taking any action, he said.


The corporate tax cut will put the Czech Republic on the same
level as Slovakia and Poland, which already tax companies 19.0
percent, by 2010.


The tax package, which government ministers warn will have to be
followed up by further measures to keep the budget deficit in
check and reform the health and pensions system, disappointed
some analysts.


"It is still a sort of pseudo-reform," said Raiffeisenbank's
Michl. "On the one side there are the tax changes but there is no
big effort to simplify the tax system for business and there is
nothing about social contributions which the OECD has highlighted
as one of the biggest problems in this country," he added.


HVB Bank analyst, Pavel Sobisek, said the reforms "had good
economic sense," but Next Finance broker Vladimir Pikora
described them "as a watered down version of those already passed
several years ago in Slovakia."


"It will hurt the middle class and leave more people worse off
than better off," Michl said.


The reform package, immediately sparked hostility from the main
opposition party, the Social Democrats, which said it would
oppose it when presented to parliament in June.


One leading member of Topolanek's own party, former finance
minister, Vlastimil Tlusty, Tuesday described the package as "a
torso or perhaps a mock-up of a reform," adding that he would
have to consider whether to support it.


Topolanek's government has no guaranteed majority in parliament
and only won a vote of confidence in January thanks to leftwing
defectors.

