

British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday that the standoff
with Iran over 15 captive sailors was in a "critical" phase,
after a top Tehran official said new contacts could help end the
crisis.


But Blair also warned that he may be forced to take "tougher
decisions" if the naval personnel are not freed, while Iran's
vice-president reiterated that London must admit they were in
Iranian territorial waters when seized.


"The next 48 hours will be fairly critical," Blair told Glasgow-
based Real Radio, while cautiously welcoming comments by top
Iranian national security official Ali Larijani, who on Monday
underlined the need for a diplomatic solution.


"I've read the transcripts of the interview (Larijani) gave and
that seems to offer some prospect but the most important thing is
to get these people back," he said, referring to the Iranian's
comments in a television interview.


In Tehran, senior officials appeared to be taking a more
conciliatory tone over the 14 men and one woman who were seized
in the northern Gulf on March 23 and accused of trespassing in
Iranian waters.


"London has changed its attitude for several days now and is
acting on the basis of negotiations," Vice President Parviz
Davoudi told reporters in the southern city of Bushehr where he
was opening a new installation at Iran's first nuclear power
station.


But he warned: "London must give guarantees and say that there
was a violation and there will be no other errors in the future.
I think that the problem is heading in this direction and God
willing will be resolved soon."


Blair cautioned that London was ready to keep pressure on Tehran
if the sailors and marines are not released, saying there were
"two very clear tracks" along which the situation could evolve.


"One is to try and settle this by way of peaceful, calm
negotiation, get our people back as quickly as possible ... The
other is to make it clear that if that's not possible, then we
have to take increasingly tougher decisions."


The comments came after Larijani said new talks had started with
Britain for resolving the crisis, which he described as the first
step towards finding a solution.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue."


Britain, which unlike its ally the United States has diplomatic
relations with Iran, has kept up bilateral contacts throughout
the crisis and ambassador Geoffrey Adams was to meet foreign
ministry officials later Tuesday.


London maintains the group was carrying out routine anti-
smuggling operations. Iran says that their Global Positioning
System (GPS) devices show they intruded into its waters. Britain
says their GPS information shows the crew were in Iraqi waters.


The crisis has come at a perilous time for Iran's relations with
the West, with the United States refusing to rule out military
action over the Iranian nuclear programme and the United Nations
imposing tough new sanctions.


The atmosphere had also been soured by Iran's broadcast of
televised "confessions" of the sailors admitting that they
crossed into Iranian waters which have infuriated London.


However, in a possible sign of rapprochement, Iran refrained from
broadcasting the sound on more images of the sailors that were
shown on state television on Monday.


State television said all 15 sailors had given "frank
confessions," and admitted to illegally entering its waters.


President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had been scheduled to give a keenly
anticipated news conference on Tuesday but this was postponed "at
the request of journalists," an official said.


Iran's Larijani also gave a rare interview to Britain's Channel
Four television, saying there was "no need" to put the group on
trial and describing the stand- off as "quite resolvable."


Blair, speaking during a visit to Scotland, said the ball was now
in Iran's court. "I'm not going to say any more at the moment --
it's for the Iranian government now to come back with their
response."

