

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday warned that US House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi's trip to Syria sent "mixed signals" that
undermine US-led efforts to isolate Syrian President Bashar al-
Assad.


In his first public remarks on the visit, Bush took a dim view of
US and European diplomatic outreach to Damascus, declaring that
"sending delegations hasn't worked. It's just simply been
counterproductive."


"We have made it clear to high-ranking officials, whether they be
Republicans or Democrats, that going to Syria sends mixed
signals, signals in the region and, of course, mixed signals to
President Assad," he said.


"Photo opportunities and/or meetings with President Assad lead
the Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of
the international community, when, in fact, they're a state
sponsor of terror," said Bush.


The US president's remarks came in a question-and-answer session
with reporters in the Rose Garden of the White House shortly
after Pelosi became the highest ranking US official in four years
to visit Syrian officials.


Syria is "helping expedite, or at least not stopping, the
movement of foreign fighters from Syria into Iraq," Bush charged,
adding that Damascus has "done little to nothing to rein in
militant Hamas and Hezbollah" and worked to "destabilize the
Lebanese democracy."


"There have been a lot of people who have gone to see President
Assad: Some Americans, but a lot of European leaders, high-
ranking officials. And yet we haven't seen action. In other
words, he hasn't responded," said Bush.


"It's one thing to send a message. It's another thing to have the
person receiving the message actually do something," said the
president, who last year rejected a heavyweight bipartisan
commission's call to engage Syria and Iran in a bid to pacify
war-torn Iraq.


"The position of this administration is that the best way to meet
with a leader like Assad or people from Syria is in the larger
context of trying to get the global community to help change his
behavior," he said.

