

Utility group National Grid said on Tuesday it had agreed to sell
its British telecom equipment business to Australian bank
Macquarie for 2.5 billion pounds (3.7 billion euros, 4.9 billion
dollars) in cash.


National Grid, which operates electricity and gas networks across
Britain, said it had agreed a deal to sell its National Grid
Wireless UK unit, a leading provider of network infrastructure to
mobile network operators in Britain.


"National Grid is pleased to announce that it has signed and
expects to complete today an agreement with Macquarie UK
Broadcast Ventures Limited ... on the sale of its UK Wireless
business for a total cash consideration of 2.5 billion pounds,"
the statement said.


The news sent National Grid's share price soaring by more than
2.0 percent in London stock market trading.


As a result of the deal, National Grid said it would return 1.8
billion pounds to shareholders via an extension of the existing
share buy-back programme.


"We are delighted with the outcome of this transaction, which has
secured an attractive premium for a great business which we have
grown successfully," National Grid chief executive Steve Holliday
said in the statement.


"This represents a significant step in our strategy of focusing
on the UK and US electricity and gas markets, and demonstrates
our commitment to generating shareholder value.


"Meanwhile we continue to progress the sale of our much smaller
US Wireless business," he added.


National Grid Wireless operates around 5,000 active sites used
for mobile communications. It is also one of two providers of
transmission networks for analogue and digital television and
radio broadcasters with around 750 purpose- built broadcast
towers and associated transmission equipment.


For the year ended March 31, 2006, National Grid Wireless UK
generated operating profit of 70 million pounds on revenues of
297 million pounds.


On London's FTSE 100 index, the share price of National Grid
closed at 816 pence, up 2.13 percent. The capital's leading share
index ended 0.80-percent higher at 6,366.10 points.

