

Francois Bayrou, the centrist "third man" of France's
presidential campaign, on Tuesday unveiled a programme calling
for a "peaceful revolution" to end the left-right divide he says
has left the country in an unprecedented crisis.


"If one of the two candidates of the dominant parties is elected,
nothing will change," said Bayrou, whose unexpected opinion poll
surge has rattled his main rivals, the rightwing Nicolas Sarkozy
and the Socialist Segolene Royal.


The 55-year-old former Latin teacher has emerged from almost
nowhere to take third place in a 12-horse race that includes five
far-left candidates, a pair of far-right contenders, a green
campaigner and a hunting and fishing candidate.


They all claim to be able to cure the ills that France is facing:
unemployment among the highest in Europe, social discontent that
occasionally turns violent, a lethargic economy, widespread fear
of globalisation, and a bitter debate over national identity.


But Bayrou's claim to be the "healer" who will soothe these pains
has struck a chord.


The former education minister and leader of the small Union for
French Democracy (UDF) party has gained ground with his proposal
to set up a national unity government that would bring together
moderates of the left and right.


Bayrou repeated that call Tuesday as he unveiled his 20-page
programme at a hotel in southern Paris, telling journalists that
an "electric shock" was needed to end the left-right carve-up of
power.


"What we need to bring about is a revolution. A peaceful
revolution, but a revolution nevertheless," said the UDF leader,
who has penned a biography of King Henri IV who succeeded in
uniting France after the 16th-century wars of religion.


His programme includes measures to create jobs, "restore trust"
between the state and citizens, overhaul the country's creaking
education system, balance the state budget and improve conditions
in the poor suburbs.


The ruling UMP party's line of attack on Bayrou is that his
programme is vague and that he is really a rightwinger and has
always been one, while the left say that his socialist tendencies
are a fraud.


Bayrou, a father of six and a practising Catholic, was born into
a farming family in the Bearn region of southwestern France and
makes much of his rural roots.


His popularity has fallen back in recent weeks, and the latest
IFOP poll put him down one percentage point at 20 percent of
voting intentions, with Royal at 23 percent and Sarkozy still
firmly in the lead at 27.5 percent.


And Bayrou suffered another blow at the weekend, when the only
member of his UDF party to serve in the Prime Minister Dominique
de Villepin's government said he had decided to support Sarkozy
for the presidency.


At Tuesday's event, Bayrou again attacked France's elite training
college, the National Administration School (ENA), whose
graduates have dominated France's post-war governments.


"We are the only democratic country in the world where the elite
is so restricted," said Bayrou, who on Monday had called for the
school to be abolished.


And he took a swipe at Sarkozy on the question of the strong
euro, saying that "if we weaken the euro then immediately
interest rates will explode."


Sarkozy on Monday said France was the victim of "monetary
dumping" from the United States, China and Japan, whose
currencies he said were undervalued.


Bayrou also sought to play down his declining electoral fortunes,
saying that "in the last three weeks the candidates who are in
the lead experience a drop."


In the last presidential elections here in 2002, the opinion
polls failed to predict that the far-right candidate Jean-Marie
Le Pen would make it through to the second round to square off
against -- and ultimately lose to -- Jacques Chirac.

