

Forecasters warned Tuesday the Atlantic hurricane season would be
a very active one, predicting 17 named storms would form of which
nine could become hurricanes, highly likely to strike Caribbean
and US coasts.


"We have increased our forecast for the 2007 hurricane season,
largely due to the rapid dissipation of El Nino conditions. We
are now calling for a very active hurricane season.  Landfall
probabilities for the 2007 hurricane season are well above their
long-period averages," said Colorado State University experts
Philip Klotzbach and William Gray.


"We have increased our forecast from our early December
prediction due largely to the rapid dissipation of El Nino which
has occurred over the past couple of months," they added.


The forecasters said that they expect neutral or weak-to-moderate
La Nina conditions during the upcoming hurricane season, and that
"tropical and North Atlantic sea surface temperatures remain well
above their long-period averages."


"The probability of US major hurricane landfall is estimated to
be about 140 percent of the long-period average. We expect
Atlantic basin Net Tropical Cyclone (NTC) activity in 2007 to be
about 185 percent of the long-term average," they added.


Vice Admiral Conrad Lautenbacher, the NOAA administrator, noted
that while "other scientific factors affect the frequency of
hurricanes, there tends to be a greater-than-normal number of
Atlantic hurricanes and fewer-than-normal number of eastern
Pacific hurricanes during La Nina events."


Of the nine hurricanes that they expect will form, five could be
intense Category Three or more systems, Klotzbach and Gray said.


The likelihood of a hurricane hitting the US eastern coast is 74
percent, they said, while in the Caribbean the likelihood was
greater than average.


The hurricane season stretches from June 1 to November 30.


Last year saw nine storms form five of them hurricanes  which did
relatively litle damage after a disastrous 2005 season.


It was a record-breaking season with 28 storms forming, 15 of
them hurricanes, including Stan which killed some 2,000 people in
Guatemala and Katrina which hit the US Gulf coast flooding most
of New Orleans and killing about 1,500 people.

