

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday condemned a top US
lawmaker's visit to Syria as "counterproductive" and warned
against offering Iran any "quid pro quos" to free 15 British
captives.


Facing challenges and criticisms aimed at his hard line towards
Damascus and Tehran, Bush struck an uncompromising tone towards
US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's stop in Syria and Tehran's tense
standoff with London.


The embattled president said Iran's capture of 15 British sailors
and marines was "indefensible" and that he and British Prime
Minister Tony Blair agree "that there should be no quid pro quos
when it comes to the hostages."


Blair said earlier that the standoff was in a "critical" phase
and warned that he faced "tougher decisions" if the captives are
not freed, even as he warily welcomed Iranian calls for a
diplomatic solution.


Bush, speaking hours after Pelosi became the most senior US
official to visit Damascus in about four years, said her trip
sent "mixed messages" that undermine US-led efforts to isolate
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.


"Photo opportunities and/or meetings with President Assad lead
the Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of
the international community, when, in fact, they're a state
sponsor of terror," said Bush.


The US leader took a dim view of US and European diplomatic
outreach to Damascus, declaring that "sending delegations hasn't
worked. It's just simply been counterproductive."


Syria is "helping expedite, or at least not stopping, the
movement of foreign fighters from Syria into Iraq," has "done
little to nothing to rein in militant Hamas and Hezbollah" and
wants to "destabilize" Lebanon, he charged.


"There have been a lot of people who have gone to see President
Assad: Some Americans, but a lot of European leaders, high-
ranking officials. And yet we haven't seen action. In other
words, he hasn't responded," said Bush.


"It's one thing to send a message. It's another thing to have the
person receiving the message actually do something," said the
president, who last year rejected a heavyweight bipartisan
commission's call to engage Syria and Iran in a bid to pacify
war-torn Iraq.


Pelosi has specifically referred to the Iraq Study Group's advice
as an underpinning of her visit and insisted and the lawmakers
accompanying her "have no illusions, but we have great hope."


Bush's administration has boycotted Damascus since the February
2005 assassination of Lebanese former prime minister Rafiq Hariri
in which a UN investigation has implicated Syrian officials
despite Damascus's denials.


Washington imposed economic sanctions on Damascus in 2004,
accusing Syria of harboring terror groups, backing insurgents in
Iraq and meddling in Lebanon.


Bush aides said his attacks on diplomatic outreach to Syria did
not include last month's visit by Ellen Sauerbrey, the US
assistant secretary of state for refugees and migration, because
she met with low-level officials on a very specific issue.


The US president, his popularity at record lows because of the
war in Iraq, also hit out at Iran over its nuclear program,
renewing charges that the Islamic republic seeks to develop
atomic weapons.


"I firmly believe that if Iran were to have a nuclear weapon, it
would be a seriously destabilizing influence in the Middle East,"
he said, adding that efforts to prevent that outcome were a
"cornerstone" of US policy.

