

Organisers of the 2010 World Cup in South Africa expressed fears
on Tuesday about the unravelling crisis in Zimbabwe, worried that
the unrest could spread across the border.


"We are concerned it may spill over across our borders and our
man-power may be stretched in the form of security," Irvin Khoza,
chairman of the local organising committee told reporters.


"We hope nearer the time those issues would be taken care of ...
as a matter of urgency."


The 2010 World Cup will be the first time that one of the biggest
of all sporting competitions has been staged in Africa and South
African President Thabo Mbeki is determined it is not
overshadowed by unrest in other parts of the continent.


Reports here have said that Mbeki's Zimbabwean counterpart Robert
Mugabe came under pressure from the government in Pretoria
recently not to proceed with plans to delay the next elections
until World Cup year.


Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, beaten by Mugabe's
security forces in an attack that brought widespread
international condemnation last month, has said that failure to
resolve the crisis would tarnish the contest.


"All Africa takes pride that South Africa has been selected to
hold the World Cup in 2010 and that pride would turn to shame if
the World Cup is blighted by the inability of Africans to solve
the Zimbabwe crisis," Tsvangirai said on a visit to Johannesburg
on Monday.


Khoza said his committee was looking to see how Mbeki would
proceed with the mandate granted by regional leaders last week to
defuse the crisis and bring the government and opposition
together in dialogue.


"We are waiting the outcome of the intervention ... by our state
president who is also in the forefront in organising" 2010, said
Khoza.


"We have confidence in him and hope that normality in that area,
which is been proposed as a fan base, can be encouraged," added
Khoza.


Mbeki has come under fire in some quarters for failing to
publicly criticise Mugabe, instead advocating a policy of "quiet
diplomacy".


The 2003 cricket World Cup, mainly staged in South Africa, was
marred by the refusal of the England team to play in Zimbabwe
over security fears.


Two Zimbabwean players, Henry Olonga and Andy Flower, caused a
storm during the same competition when they donned black armbands
in a match to protest the "death of democracy in our beloved
Zimbabwe". Both have since gone into exile.

