

A new 1,300-kilometer-long (806-mile-long) oil pipeline to link
the Black Sea with Italy won support on Tuesday from the five
southeast European countries involved in the project.


Croatia, Italy, Romania, Serbia and Slovenia pledged to boost
cooperation on a plan to build the new export route between the
Romanian Black Sea port of Constanta and the Italian Adriatic
port of Trieste.


Economy ministers and state secretaries of the five countries
voiced their "support for the enhancement of cooperation between
the countries of the Pan- European pipeline (PEOP) route and
those other countries that have expressed their interest in the
PEOP project," a declaration signed here said.


EU leaders have become increasingly concerned at their dependence
on Russia for energy imports, particularly natural gas, and are
keen to increase their supply routes and diversify suppliers.


The 27-member bloc has also backed the construction of the
Nabucco pipeline, which would carry gas from the Middle East and
Central Asia to the EU, via Turkey and the Balkans.


Croat Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said the pipeline, which will
have capacity to transport 80-100 million tonnes of crude oil
annually, would cost 2.0-3.5 billion dollars (1.5-2.6 billion
euros).


"This project providing for the transport of oil from ... the
Black Sea to European market is a strategic project for both
Croatia and all the countries through which it (the pipeline)
will go," Ivo Sanader said.


"Today we made the first important step ... We believe that we
will soon start with realization of the project," Sanader said.


European Union Energy Commissioner Andris Piebalgs, who co-signed
the declaration, stressed the EU's support for the project,
proposed back in 2002.


"I and my colleagues will do everything possible to facilitate
the work ... (to) see implementation of this project," he
stressed.


Piebalgs said that the Caspian Sea region would be supplying more
and more to the world market.


"But to be really ready to accomodate the oil we need
infrastructure plans and this infrastructure should be sound and
avoid congestion that could provoke huge environmental damage if
something goes wrong," he added.


"The Pan-European oil pipeline actually very much corresponds to
this criteria."


The participating countries also stressed in their declaration
that they would "consider what adjustments are justified to
routing proposals in order to accomodate legitimate concerns
relating to protected natural environments."


Environment protection played an important role in preliminary
talks as Slovenia initially refused to join the project citing
ecological concerns.


The declaration was signed on the sidelines of a one-day meeting
on energy security, potential and investment in south-eastern
Europe.


In Budapest on Tuesday, the head of the International Energy
Agency also highlighted the importance of southeast European
countries in diversifying EU energy supplies.


IEA chief Claude Mandil said that a planned liquefied natural gas
terminal on Croatia's Adriatic coast would better help diversify
Europe's energy sources than rival EU- or Russian-backed plans.


The terminal, which is currently planned in Croatia, could
receive tankers from around the world and would transport gas via
pipelines to central and western Europe.


The location of the future terminal is currently being decided
on, and the government has suggested it could be on the southern
part of the coast, close to the border with Bosnia.


Russia meanwhile is pushing to extend its existing Blue Stream
pipeline, which would carry gas along much the same route as
Nabucco.

