

Norwegian Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store said Tuesday he hoped
the European Union would soon formally announce a normalisation
of ties with the new Palestinian national unity government.


"This new unity government needs to be given a chance," he told
AFP in Cairo, where he met Arab League Secretary General Amr
Mussa. "I hope the EU will take this step."


Norway was the first Western country to normalise ties with the
Palestinian cabinet formed last month by president Mahmud Abbas'
mainstream Fatah party and Prime Minister Ismail Haniya's
hardline Hamas movement.


The United States and the EU consider Hamas a terrorist
organisation and have not formally recognised the government,
demanding it renounce violence and recognise Israel's right to
exist.


But the Norwegian minister said some EU countries were de facto
normalising their ties with the new government by engaging in
talks with some of its ministers.


"A number of governments are already normalising their relations
with the Palestinians," he said, citing foreign minister Ziad Abu
Amr's talks in Paris and a planned trip by finance minister Salam
Fayyad to Brussels in a week.


Store said he discussed with Mussa means of reviving frozen
Western aid to the Palestinians and stressed that the independent
Fayyad was a key player.


"What I believe is that we need to strongly connect the finance
minister on this, so that the aid that is transferred is
channelled into transparent and accountable channels on the
Palestinian side," he said.


"The finance minister is an able and trusted man."


EU foreign ministers, who are to meet in Bremen, Germany on
Friday and Saturday, are to discuss what stand to take towards
the new government and on financial aid.


The EU was the biggest aid donor to the Palestinian government
until Hamas came to power in March 2006.


Since then, the 27-nation bloc has redirected its aid, which
reached 700 million euros in 2006, through a special mechanism to
help the most needy people while bypassing the government to
avoid contact with Hamas.


The swearing in of a unity cabinet including the more moderate
Fatah two weeks ago was seen by Palestinians experiencing a dire
economic crisis as a key step towards resuming aid.

