

The TGV train went so fast through eastern France that cheering
spectators watching from bridges and other vantage points saw it
go by in a blur.


No-one could even see the exact number on the speedometer as the
specially built train raced down the rails on the Paris-
Strasbourg line. It hit "574 and a bit more", a spokesman for the
manufacturer Alstom said.


Official recorders later declared the speed at 574.8 kilometers
(357.2 miles) per hour -- a new world record for a train on
traditional rails. (A Japanese magnetic levitation, or Maglev,
train was a bit faster at 581 kph (360.8 mph.)


"There was no way we could try the Maglev record, 580 was running
too many risks, we were heading into the unknown," said Patrick
Trannoy, director for the RFF operator of the rail track used for
the record bid.


Alstom and its partners cannot afford anything to go wrong with
the TGV.


It took representatives of China and India among the 30 specially
invited guests on the record-breaking trip to showoff the train's
high speed advantages.


The so-called TGV V150 started quietly. Technicians flashed
messages to each other making final checks on the 25,000
horsepower before it hit top speed.


"There are 600 monitors on different parts of the train and if
one comes off, it all comes to a halt," said Guillaume Pepy,
director general of SNCF, the French state rail company.


The train warmed up at 160 kph (100 mph) and then headed up into
record zone, requiring 31,000 volts to keep its two super-charged
locomotives and extra-large wheels moving.


The speedometer went quickly up to 350kph, 350kph, 400 kph. The
vibrations grew, passengers noticed that their ears were becoming
blocked, the gentle curves on the specially designed track could
be felt more and more.


There were cheers as the 1990 world record of 515 kph was passed,
but the drivers kept their eyes firmly on the speedometer and the
reinforced front screen, though the passing countryside and
camera clutching spectators could hardly be distinguished.


The tension only passed after the TGV hit its record and then
started easing down to a cruising speed into the station at
Reims, the capital of France's champagne country.


At Reims, the drivers and technicians posed for photographs in
front of the historic black train shouting "world record".


A red sign board lit up the figures "574.8 km/h". No need to
guess what drink was used to celebrate the record.

