

Nigerian Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday lost an appeal
against a decision by the electoral commission to bar him from
this month's presidential election.


An appeals court in Abuja ruled that Nigeria's Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC) does have the power to
disqualify a candidate from running in the April 21 election.


"It is my considered view that not only has the appelant (the
electoral commission) the power to screen and disqualify
candidates but to remove the name of candidates without recourse
to court," said a statement read by one of the judges, Rabiu
Danlami Mohammad.


"We are appealing immediately", Niyi Akintola, a lawyer of
Atiku's Action Congress (AC) party told journalists.


AC will have to take its appeal to the Supreme Court.


But a few hours after the appeals court ruling, a lower court,
the federal High Court, ordered INEC to include Abubakar's name
in the list of candidates for the April 21 poll.


"INEC has no power or right to exclude Abubakar from contesting
the presidential election except on the order of court and I
hereby order INEC to include Abubakar on the list as a flagbearer
of AC", judge Tijjani Abubakar ruled.


Lagos human rights and constitutional lawyer Gani Fawehinmi said
that the second court ruling would not help Abubakar's case.


"What the federal High Court has done is illegal. With the
judgement of the court of appeal, Atiku Abubakar is technically
out of the presidential race.


"In accordance with section 287 of the constitution, the ruling
of the federal court of appeal is constitutionally superior to
that of the federal High court.


"Even if Atiku Abubakar appeals to the Supreme Court, the case
may not be heard until May, after the elections might have been
held," he said.


The case goes back to a feud between President Olusegun Obasanjo
and his deputy Atiku Abubakar over Obasanjo's attempt in 2006 to
have the constitution modified to allow him to run for a third
term in office.


One of the strongest opponents of that attempt was Abubakar.


Obasanjo, who failed to obtain the desired constitutional change,
subsequently vowed that he would not allow his deputy to succeed
him.


Abubakar was indicted on corruption charges, which some analysts
say were politically motivated.


He then defected from the ruling People's Democratic Party (PDP)
to run under the banner of the opposition AC.


Obasanjo went to court to argue that defection from the PDP was
grounds enough to declare the seat of vice president vacant.


But a court ruled against the president on February 20.


On March 15 INEC, while never formally saying it had barred Atiku
Abubakar from running, left his name off the list of candidates
approved to stand.


Abubakar was indicted earlier this year for misuse of public
funds linked to a petroleum fund that he was managing.


The Nigerian constitution bars anyone from becoming president if
he has been indicted by a tribunal for fraud or embezzlement.


However, the same constitution also gives total executive
immunity to the president, vice president and state governors
while in office.


Frustrated in his attempt to get a chance at a third term,
Obasanjo is determined that his choice of successor, Umaru
Yar'Adua, the governor of the northern State of Katsina, should
win the presidential election for the PDP.


Thursday will see another potentially significant judgement.


The electoral commission is expected to rule whether the
constitution requires that the elections be postponed because of
the death of a relatively minor presidential candidate, Adebayo
Adefarati.


Nigeria is scheduled to hold state governorship and state
assembly elections on April 14, ahead of presidential elections
on April 21.

