

Madrid might have won its battle to keep its electricity supplier
Endesa under the Spanish flag, after forcing German giant E.ON
out of the race, but at a price, analysts and media said on
Tuesday.


The energy company is being carved up, Spain's regulatory
institutions have been weakened and Madrid was set on collision
course with the European Union authorities in Brussels.


"At what price?" commented Spanish economic daily Expansion in an
editorial a day after E.ON gave up its bid to buy Endesa.


Late on Monday E.ON decided to cede victory in its long and
bitter battle for Endesa to rival bidders Spanish contruction
firm Acciona and Italian power supplier Enel, in return for a
promise from the two to sell it 10 billion euros worth of key
assets.


The Spanish government had fought tooth and nail to foil E.ON's
bid, even though the EU competition authorities had given the
deal the green light.


So even though the Spanish government has won its battle, a large
part of the group will be under German flag, while another part
will be under an Italian company.


"The carving up of Endesa was one of the least pleasant scenarios
for the Spanish government because it signified the disappearance
of one of the biggest Spanish energy companies," analysts at the
Portuguese bank Espirito Santo said.


"It is a solution which allows Endesa to continue to be a
business with its headquarters in Spain...and its historic
assets, coal and nuclear will remain together," Industry Minister
Joan Clos commented in Brussels.


Under the carve up some 11,000 MW of production will be
transferred, or just under 30 percent of the group's total
capacity, EO.N said.


The Endesa saga has also resulted in heads rolling with the head
of the financial markets regulatory authority Manuel Conthe
resigning on Monday after he found himself in a minority when he
wanted to impose tougher conditions on Acciona and Enel.


Spain has also found itself on collision course with the European
Union competition authorities in Brussels.


On Tuesday they vowed to continue legal action against Spain
despite EO.N's decision to give up its bid.


"We will continue our action against Spain before the court,"
said Jonathan Todd, the European Commission's spokesman for
competition affairs.


The EU's executive arm opened a second lawsuit at the European
Court of Justice last week because Spain had defied repeated
requests to lift conditions it has imposed on EO.N's bid for
Endesa.


Spanish energy regulator CNE set a number of requirements for
EON, including that it must conserve for five years the Endesa
brand name of the biggest Spanish electricity generator.


It also demanded that Spanish coal be used in power stations and
that certain assets could not be sold off.


The Commission lodged a first lawsuit against Spain in January
for giving the CNE regulator powers to scrutinise foreign
takeovers.


The EON-Endesa case has been widely seen in Brussels as a
flagrant example of protectionism by Spain.

