

Seville local government officials have revealed extensive
security measures for Thursday's UEFA Cup tie between Sevilla and
English Premiership side Tottenham Hotspur here on Tuesday.


An additional 800 security staff - a mixture of 500 police and
300 private personnel - have been brought in to augment the
city's already stretched resources having to deal with hundreds
of thousands of Easter visitors.


With Tottenham having an official allocation of 3,500 tickets,
the figures mean that the local authorities have opted for a
highly visible presence in a bid to avoid any clashes between
foreign football fans and local revellers.


The holy week celebrations in Seville, both religious and
secular, are among the biggest within a single city in Europe.


The majority of Spurs' fans will travel on specially chartered
flights from London which will touch down on the morning of the
match and leave shortly after the final whistle.


Five flights will land at Seville and another four will go into
nearby Jerez.


The Tottenham supporters on these flights will then be
transported to the centre of Seville on escorted coaches in a bid
to avoid any security problems, although the club's fans have a
reputation for generally good behaviour when accompanying their
team on continental trips.


All except one of the Jerez flights will leave the same night to
avoid the possibility of hundreds, perhaps thousands, of
Tottenham supporters being on the streets of Spain's fourth
largest city without any accomodation.


The hard line by football's continental governing body over
scheduling of the UEFA Cup quarter-final first leg match on what
is locally known as Holy Thursday has led to extensive criticism
of UEFA in Spain.


Seville mayor Alfonso Rodriguez Gomez de Celis pleaded with UEFA
to change the date of the match after the draw was made but he
was turned down.


"The ideal thing would be for the match not to be played during
the holy week," said Gomez de Celis last month. "But that is
going to be very difficult."


UEFA communications and public affairs director William Gaillard
commented that the organisation did not want to create a
precedent, with UEFA having turned down previous requests to move
matches for political and religious reasons.


"The dates of this year's UEFA Cup have been known for a long
time," said Gaillard last month, in partial explanation for
UEFA's stance.


Gaillard's response prompting some caustic comments in the
Spanish media.


"Easter has been on the calendar even longer than the UEFA Cup,
and the dates of the Easter celebrations this year have probably
been known for even longer than this year's UEFA Cup," reflected
a Spanish newspaper editorial.

