

The standoff over 15 British sailors held by Iran is only the
latest episode in London's troubled history with Tehran, which
still suspects the former colonial power of meddling in its
affairs.


Trapped in the "Great Game" colonial rivalry between Russia and
Britain in the 1800s, Iran has long suspected London of a hidden
hand in events affecting the Persian Gulf country.


Such animosity toward Britain has deep roots in Iran.


"British interference in Iranian politics has been the main
characteristic of their relationship since actually the 19th
century," said Laleh Khalili, a lecturer at the School of
Oriental and African Studies in London.


"The Iranians have always looked at the British as a kind of
cunning, malign force in their history," she told AFP.


With Persia -- as Iran was called until 1935 -- serving as a
buffer with India, the jewel in the British colonial crown,
Britain gained a reputation for its skills at manipulation in
contrast with Russia's brute force.


Britain never colonised Iran, but occupied the south of the
country in 1942 after ousting Reza Shah Pahlavi for his pro-Nazi
sympathies and exerted its influence through the "exploitation of
Iran's natural resources," Khalili said.


The Anglo-Iranian oil company, forerunner to British Petroleum,
"at one point paid more in taxes to the British than it did in
fees to Iranians, even as they were exploiting their oil,"
Khalili said.


The most flagrant Western interference occurred in 1953 when the
US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) carried out a coup backed by
Britain's Winston Churchill that toppled nationalist prime
minister Mohammad Mossadegh who had nationalised the company two
years earlier.


The growing US presence increasingly hid British influence, but
Iranians have remained suspicious of London.


In 1979 Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi -- whose father had been
ousted in 1942 -- suspected the British of being the force behind
the Islamic fundamentalist revolution which brought to power
Ayatollah Khomeini.


And many other Iranian opposition members still believe that
Britain is favorable to the mullahs.


"British power in Iran was never as extensive as Iranians fear,
or British hubris tended to project," Ali Ansari, an Iran
specialist at the University of St Andrews in Scotland, wrote in
a column in The Independent on Sunday.


"The truth was that British priorities lay elsewhere, in India
and now in Iraq.... Other priorities often meant that Iran was
neglected," he wrote.


But many Iranians do not see this.


Ansari said that "the soldiers of Iran's Revolutionary Guards,
the driving force in the current crisis, are raised on a steady
doctrine of Anglophobia...," adding that many believe "Bush is
very much Blair's poodle -- and that the real target of Iranian
ire should have been, and should be, Britain and not the US," he
said.


In Britain, the media often see it the other way around,
criticising Prime Minister Tony Blair for being US President
George W. Bush's "poodle".


Recent decades have been marked by various diplomatic incidents
with Iran, including the closure of the British mission in Tehran
in 1980 after British special forces stormed the Iranian embassy
in London to end a hostage siege.


The fatwa issued by Khomeini in 1989 against British writer
Salman Rushdie sparked a new rupture in diplomatic relations that
were only restored in 1999.


In 2004, Iran captured and held eight British soldiers for three
days.


"Since the revolution, although there has been some very deep
dark moments between them, diplomacy has been primarily the way
in which the two states have dealt with one another," Khalili
told AFP.


Since then the relationship has not been "incredibly warm, but it
has been very diplomatically cordial," she said.


However, tension still flows from Britain's role in the Western
bid to stop Iran's nuclear ambitions, Iran's suspected
involvement in British-occupied southern Iraq, and an alleged
British plot in oil-rich Khuzestan province.

