

Australia's Libby Lenton became the first woman in history to
break 53 seconds for the 100m freestyle when she swam 52.99
during the first leg of the mixed relay at the Duel in the Pool
swim meet against the USA here Tuesday.


Lenton's time was 0.31 faster than the 53.30 recorded by
Germany's Britta Steffen when she won the European Championships
in August 2006.


But because of the unusual nature of the race, the Australian
will have an anxious wait to see whether her world record is
ratified by the sport's governing body FINA.


The result was not enough to clinch the match for Australia, as
the USA won the meet for the third time in succession, scoring
181.5 points to Australia 129.5.


Lenton swam the first leg of the relay against multiple world
champion Michael Phelps and there was initially some concern from
swimming officials that FINA may decide that Phelps was pacing
the Australian.


However, Swimming Australia spokesman David Lyall said later
there was no reason to believe the record would not stand.


"We've spoken to FINA and they said they expected the record to
be ratified," Lyall said.


"We won't know for certain tonight but we are confident it will
stand as a record," he said.


It will be a double celebration for Lenton if she is awarded the
world record as she is due to marry fellow swimmer Luke Trickett
on Saturday.


"I think the wedding is going to top everything," she said.


"I don't think you can really compare the two, it is a very
special personal moment for me."


Phelps, who won a record seven gold medals at the World
Championships, swam only two individual events at the Duel in the
Pool but he won them both comfortably.


He clocked 48.79 to win the 100m freestyle ahead of Australia's
Eamon Sullivan (49.37) and fellow American Cullen Jones (49.76),
then beat compatriot Aaron Peirsol and Australia's Ephraim
Hannant to win the 200m backstroke in a time of 1:56.29.


In the major upset of the meet, Tara Kirk of the US beat
Australia's world record holder Leisel Jones in the 100m
breaststroke.


Kirk went out fast early on and Jones just failed to reel her in,
the American touching in 1:06.72 ahead of Jones in 1:06.80.


The Australian came back to win the 200m breaststroke ahead of
the USA's Rebecca Soni and said she was determined to strike back
after losing the 100m.


"It was a close race in the 100 - I have had close races with
Tara in the past so I definitely didn't want to lose the 200 as
well," she said.

