

European domination of the Masters may be a thing of the past,
but Padraig Harrington and Paul Casey believe a new golden era
could be just around the corner.


The last European player to win at Augusta National was Spain's
Jose Maria Olazabal in 1999, the 10th such success in 20 years
dating back to compatriot Seve Ballesteros' breakthrough triumph
in 1980.


Since then, European players have lorded it over their American
rivals at the Ryder Cup, but success in the Masters and the three
other majors has remained elusive.


Harrington, one of the top European bets at Augusta this year,
compares it to the legendary four-minute mile barrier that
stumped the world's top athletes until Britain's Roger Bannister
finally beat the clock in 1954.


"It's like breaking the four-minute mile," the Dubliner said of
European attempts to once again don the famous green jacket that
goes to the winner of the Masters. "Once one person does it,
everybody will be able to do it."


But to end the drought, Harrington believes it will take a
special player, one who has paid his dues at Augusta over the
years.


"I think very few guys win a major, especially a major like this,
that have not had it and let it go," he said.


"It's one of those when you have to have been there once or twice
to know what it feels like.


"I think Lee Westwood described it best when he was leading going
into the back nine (1999) and just everything totally changed."


Harrington, who has slipped two places to 10th in the latest
world rankings, admitted that his recent form has been patchy but
that he could be set to enjoy a good run at Augusta, something
that has eluded him since he tied for fifth in 2002.


"I'm definitely looking to peak here, no question about it," he
said.


"I didn't peak in the last two weeks, but my form has been solid,
so far this year.


"I feel like my game is improving but I'm certainly not walking
out there feeling like I have it totally under control or
anything like that."


Ryder Cup teammate Paul Casey is another member of the large
European contingent who believes that a European win in the
Masters is overdue and that when it comes more will surely
follow.


The 29-year-old Englishman who is up to a career-best 14th in the
world rankings says he is at a loss to explain why no European
has won a major since Paul Lawrie at the 1999 British Open at
Carnoustie, the same year that Olazabal won the Masters.


"It gets more and more attention every major," he said.


"I can't explain why. Obviously Tiger's made it very tough for
guys. He's taken away half the opportunities and the other great
players in the world have taken away the other half.


"Yeah, it's getting tough, but I think the talent has been there
in the past and I can't explain why guys didn't win majors over
the past 29 occasions.


"I do think we have a bunch of guys coming through now. Not that
the others have disappeared by any means. (Thomas) Bjorn,
(Darren) Clarke, Harrington, those sort of players, especially
Bjorn (second three times in majors) have come very, very close
and I still think they are very hungry for it and have the
ability.


"But now we have guys like (Englishmen Luke) Donald and (David)
Howell and (Sweden's Henrik) Stenson who not only have the skill,
but they also have the desire and the determination and the drive
and want to win a major and are accepting of everything that will
go with that once they win.


"So hopefully they can hurry up - somebody can hurry up - and win
one.


"I need to keep working and I think I can get close. It's my
ultimate goal to win a major and hopefully it will be as soon as
possible. And when somebody does I think the floodgates will
open."

