

Thousands of protesters massed in the Ukrainian capital on
Tuesday chanting, singing and waving flags in protest at
President Viktor Yushchenko's order to dissolve parliament.


Five thousand anti-Yushchenko protestors planned to guard the
parliament overnight, organiser Irina Perminova said, following a
Monday night vigil by some 3,500 protestors meant to prevent a
forced dissolution of parliament.


"We must stop the radicals from getting into power," said Sergei
Vasilenko, a supporter of pro-Russian Prime Minister Viktor
Yanukovych, who is leading opposition to the president's order.


Several thousand rallied through the day, though numbers had
slipped to the hundreds by late afternoon as protestors retreated
to the suburbs to refresh themselves before returning for the
night ahead.


Protests against the president's order took place across the
country amid a deepening crisis that reflects deep national
divisions between the predominantly Russian-speaking east and the
Ukrainian-speaking west.


Inside the parliament building, pro-Yanukovych legislators met
for an emergency session before Yanukovych left for crisis talks
with Yushchenko.


Outside, Yanukovych allies addressed the crowd to a rapturous
reception by the mostly young protesters, many of whom waved the
light-blue flags of Yanukovych's Regions party.


"How many times must we address the president? Why must we
justify the fact that country needs stability and peace?" Tatyana
Moroz, a pro-Yanukovych politician, told the crowd.


"Those who come at us with the fist will die by the fist."


Protestors waved placards calling on Yushchenko to respect the
constitution and against his policies of bringing the country
closer to the West including possible NATO membership.


Organisers continued to set up tents near the parliament and on
Independence Square, the epicentre of the "Orange Revolution" of
December 2004 that brought Yushchenko to the presidency after
weeks of street protests.


Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians massed for those protests,
dwarfing the numbers in the current crisis. About 50 Yushchenko
supporters rallied in support of the president outside his
offices in Kiev. Around 1,000 rallied in Lviv, the spiritual home
of the West-leaning opposition.


Yanukovych's Regions party promised to bring 15,000 people to the
streets of Donetsk in the heart of the Russian-speaking east on
Wednesday.


As in the "Orange Revolution," demonstrations by Yushchenko
opponents appeared to be highly organized. A rotation system is
in place so that no one spends more than two to three days on the
street, activists said.


After months of political instability following March 2006
parliamentary elections, however, some protesters expressed
weariness at the prolonged crisis.


"People have started to calm down here and then here we go again.
Honestly, it's like betrayal," said Vera, 40, who declined to
give her last name.

