

The widow of a former Russian agent killed by radioactive
poisoning in Britain last year launched a campaign on Tuesday to
bring his killers to justice and compensate others who were
contaminated.


"I will not rest until Sasha's killers are brought to justice,"
Marina Litvinenko, widow of Alexander Litvinenko, told a press
conference as she and supporters formally launched the Litvinenko
Justice Foundation.


She and his supporters doubt whether the British and Russian
probes into his agonising death in a London hospital on November
23 will lead to a satisfactory outcome.


The foundation has already sent a letter to Prime Minister Tony
Blair, Home Secretary John Reid and Attorney-General Lord Peter
Goldsmith and may take its campaign to the European Court of
Human Rights and the United Nations.


"The aim of the foundation is to put pressure on the government,
both Russian and British, to make sure they fulfil their
obligations," Marina Litvinenko's lawyer Louise Christian said.


The foundation, funded by exiled Russian oligarch Boris
Berezovsky, is also seeking to help scores of people contaminated
with traces of polonium 210 to claim compensation, state benefits
and legal redress.


Litvinenko was found to have high levels of the radioactive
isotope in his body when he died November 23 in a London
hospital. His associates have accused Russia of poisoning him
because of his opposition to Putin.


Detectives found traces of polonium in locations including a
Japanese restaurant, hotel bar and football stadium in London,
plus aeroplanes flying between Russia and Britain, as they
searched for his killers.


In January, British police submitted a file of evidence on the
Litvinenko case to prosecutors for them to consider whether any
criminal charges should be brought.


Russian businessman Andrei Lugovoi, who met Litvinenko on
November 1 at a central London hotel -- after which the former
agent fell ill -- is alleged to be a key suspect in the case. He
has denied any involvement.


In December, the Russian prosecutor general's office began its
own investigation into Litvinenko's death, last week questioning
Berezovsky.

