

UN chief mediator Martti Ahtisaari was Tuesday to brief the
Security Council on his contentious plan to grant supervised
independence to Kosovo as NATO warned against any violence in the
breakaway Serbian province.


He was to detail his recommendations for the future status of the
Albanian- majority province, which have already been endorsed by
Kosovo Albanians, the European Union and the United States.


But Ahtisaari's plan, unveiled last week, is strongly opposed by
Belgrade and Moscow, a veto-wielding permanent member of the
15-member Security Council.


The council, which must approve Kosovo's future status, was not
expected to make any decision or adopt any text during Tuesday's
closed-door consultations.


It was also to hear Tuesday from Serbian Prime Minister Vojislac
Kostunica and Kosovo's ethnic Albanian president Fatmir Sejdiu.


Kosovo has been administered by a UN mission since mid-1999,
after a NATO bombing campaign ended the brutal crackdown by
Serbian forces against the province's ethnic-Albanian majority.


Diplomats said the council discussions on Kosovo were likely to
last for weeks.


In this connection, council members were expected to approve a
Russian proposal to send a fact-finding mission to Belgrade and
Kosovo to take stock of the situation on the ground, diplomats
said.


Meanwhile NATO warned on Monday that it would not tolerate any
violence in Kosovo ahead of the UN consultations.


"No one should have illusions that violence or threats of
violence could in any way be an element in the final solution" to
the status of the ethnic Albanian majority province, said NATO
chief Jaap de Hoop Scheffer.


Some 10,000 ethnic Albanians died and hundreds of thousands fled
Kosovo during the 1998-1999 conflict.


"Independence is the only option for a politically stable and
economically viable Kosovo," Ahtisaari said in his latest report,
hailed by Kosovo's ethnic Albanian leaders who represent 90
percent of the province's two million people.


He made it clear that in the initial phase, international
supervision of an independent Kosovo would be required.


Under the scheme, the province would adopt a constitution within
120 days of its new status being confirmed, by which time the
mandate of the current UN mission in Kosovo will end.


General and local elections are to be held within nine months of
the new status being introduced.


An international civilian representative, who will be a European
Union representative, would oversee the implementation of the
plan while having no direct role in administering Kosovo.


He will be aided by a NATO-led military mission and an EU police
force which will "monitor, mentor and advise on all areas related
to the rule of law."


That international supervisory role "would come to an end only
when Kosovo has implemented the measures set forth in the
settlement proposal," the UN mediator added.


However Serbia, which views Kosovo as the cradle of its
civilization, remained bitterly opposed to its proposed
independence.


And Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has warned that
Ahtisaari "will fail" if he pursues his current plan for Kosovo.


"This problem can't be solved without taking into account the
positions of the two conflicting sides, Belgrade and Pristina.
Ahtisaari has decided to ignore them, but I think he will fail,"
Lavrov was quoted by Interfax news agency as saying last
Thursday.


Lavrov has even suggested Ahtisaari be replaced as UN chief
mediator.

