

Inspired by the patience of Tiger Woods and the aggressive style
of boyhood idol Greg Norman, third-ranked Adam Scott is set to
unleash something new upon the Masters - a "Tiger Shark".


The 26-year-old Australian, ranked a career-best third in the
world after winning last week at Houston, is among seven Aussies
trying to become the first from Down Under to claim the winner's
green jacket at Augusta National.


"For an Australian, it's probably the Holy Grail of golf," Scott
said. "To be the first Australian to win the Masters, it would be
a dream come true.


"It's going to happen eventually hopefully. There's no doubt we
have enough talented players here to do it."


Asked about Woods and Phil Mickelson winning five of the past six
Masters crowns, Scott sounded a confident note against the
tournament favorites.


"If I'm playing well and feeling good about my game, there's no
reason why I can't beat them this week," he said.


Norman, nicknamed the "Shark", was the Aussie who came closest to
winning the Masters, losing a 1987 playoff on an epic Larry Mize
chip-in and in 1996 when he blew a six-stroke lead to Nick Faldo
in the final round.


"I think the whole country stopped to watch Greg Norman play. We
were all heartbroken when that happened," Scott said.


"There was a bit of disbelief for a while. That's the effect Greg
had on kids in Australia. He was a motivator for us. If he won or
lost, we still wanted to get out there and be Greg Norman."


Scott's youthful desire to imitate Norman has given way to the
practical side of Woods' 12 major triumphs in the past decade.


"I grew up modeling myself after Greg. He played really
aggressive golf. It won him 80-some tournaments worldwide and
lost him a few. I try to take the good out of that and put it
into play at the right times," Scott said.


"It's about controlling your aggression. That's what you see
Tiger doing so well."


Where once Scott felt he had to summon his mightiest 72 holes to
win a major title, now he has a sense that he must simply stay in
the hunt until Sunday and then carefully make his move when
others falter.


"So many people are beaten before they even start. I didn't have
the self-belief to win," Scott said. "I felt like I had to play
better than I ever played before to win one of them. It can
happen without any real heroics."


Scott tees off Thursday in his 24th major and sixth Masters, with
his best Augusta finish being a share of ninth in his 2002 debut.


"After that I played too defensive around here and played too
many conservative shots," Scott said.


But last year, Scott relaxed and felt more comfortable around the
famed Augusta National course even though he finished in a share
of 27th.


"I didn't play great but I certainly saw something I hadn't seen
before. Hopefully I take that out on the course," Scott said.


"I'm definitely more patient with myself than other people are.
If every other 26 year-old out here was winning majors then I
would be annoyed. It's something I'd like to have sooner rather
than later but I'm patient about it."


Scott won the 2004 Players Championship and captured last year's
US PGA Tour Championship on the heels of his best showing in a
major, a third-place finish at the PGA Championship. He also
defended his Singapore Open crown.


This year, Scott took a five-week break to rest before the
majors, crafting his schedule with the majors in mind. He peaked
last week by winning in Texas.


"I just needed to get away from it," Scott said. "It started
coming together last week. I just needed to put in the hard work
after taking five weeks off.


"It would be nice to carry a little momentum. Hopefully it hasn't
taken much out of me."


Scott's fifth US PGA title gave him a career-best world ranking
but that means little to him.


"I don't really pay too much attention to the rankings," he said.
"The number one spot is the one you want to be in. I certainly
feel comfortable being ranked in the top 10."

