

President George W. Bush lashed out at US lawmakers Tuesday,
scolding Congress for going on holiday leaving unfinished
business and warning that a fight over war funding will only hurt
US troops in Iraq.


If Congress does not approve a war funding bill in coming weeks,
"the price of that failure will be paid by our troops and their
loved ones," Bush told reporters.


"The bottom line is this: Congress's failure to fund our troops
on the front line also mean that some of our military families
could wait longer for their loved ones to return from the front
lines," Bush warned.


"And others can see their loved ones headed back to the war
sooner than they need to. That is unacceptable to me, and I
believe it is unacceptable to the American people."


Bush renewed his vow to use his presidential powers to veto a
bill which ties funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to a
timetable to end the US presence in Iraq.


Monday, Senate Democrats raised the stakes in the bitter fight,
unveiling a new bid to cut off nearly all funding for the Iraq
war after March 31, 2008 if Bush vetoes the bill they plan to
submit to the White House.


The date was set as a goal for withdrawing most combat troops in
the 122 billion war budget bill passed by the Senate.


The measure, co-sponsored by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
and Senator Russ Feingold, would permit funding only for
operations against Al-Qaeda, training and equipping Iraqi troops,
and protecting US personnel and installations.


But Bush hit out at US lawmakers for being irresponsible, and
urged Congress to make good on its pledges of support for US
troops.


"Congress's most basic responsibilities (are) to give our troops
the equipment and training they need to fight our enemies and to
protect our nation. They're now failing in that responsibility,"
the president argued.


"Now they have left Washington for spring recess without
finishing the work. Democrat leaders in Congress seem more
interested in fighting political battles in Washington than
providing our troops what they need to fight the battles in
Iraq."


Democrats plan to officially unveil the new legislation on April
10 when the Senate returns from its Easter break.


"If the president vetoes the supplemental appropriations bill and
continues to resist changing course in Iraq, I will work to
ensure this legislation receives a vote in the Senate in the next
work period," Senator Reid said Monday.


Feingold added in an email message to supporters that the bill
would use "Congress's constitutional 'power of the purse'
authority to safely redeploy our troops from Iraq by March 31,
2008."


"Our bill funds the troops, it just de-funds the war," he said.


It is a high-stakes poker game: Democrats who swept to power in
November elections still lack the large majorities in the two-
chamber Congress needed to overcome a Bush veto, and they are
depending on widespread fatigue over the war to keep the public
on their side.


The White House is also playing to the public, declaring that
Congress is denying US soldiers adequate funding to do their job,
and giving the enemy a timetable to take over.


Negotiators in Congress are spending the current recess
reconciling the House and Senate versions of the budget bill so a
compromise version can be sent to Bush's desk for signing.


The House version of the war budget contains a withdrawal
deadline of August 31, 2008.


Vice President Dick Cheney warned Monday the United States faced
defeat in Iraq if Democrats succeed in imposing withdrawal.


"It's time the self-appointed strategists on Capitol Hill
understood a very simple concept: You cannot win a war if you
tell the enemy you're going to quit," Cheney said in prepared
remarks.


"When members of Congress speak not of victory but of time
limits, deadlines, or other arbitrary measures, they're telling
the enemy to simply watch the clock and wait us out," he charged.

