

Cambodia's genocide trials have been hit by another delay after
jurists failed to resolve a row over legal fees, postponing the
adoption of internal rules governing the Khmer Rouge tribunal.


Foreign and Cambodian judges were to meet April 30 to approve the
rules, which are necessary for the trials to take place, in a
move which would immediately open the way for the first
prosecutions of former regime leaders.


But international jurists announced late Tuesday that they would
not hold the April plenary of judges after the Cambodian Bar
Association refused to back down from demands that foreign
defence counsel pay fees to participate in the tribunal.


"With the fee issue still unresolved and not enough time
remaining to fix their schedules or accommodate previous
commitments, an April 30 plenary is no longer possible for the
international judges," said a statement from tribunal officials.


The statement said the foreign judges were "saddened that ... the
Cambodian Bar had not reconsidered its position."


The Bar is demanding that foreign lawyers pay first year fees of
4,900 dollars -- an amount that critics say would discourage many
from seeking clients and deprive defendants of their rights to
counsel.


"The proposed fee would severely limit the number of foreign
lawyers able to appear before the (tribunal) and would allow the
accused to argue that they have not been afforded the right to
have counsel of their choice," tribunal officials said.


"Such a fee would exclude many lawyers that are volunteering to
represent victims for free, as they would be left significantly
out of pocket for offering their services pro bono," they added.


The international judges said they would give the Bar until the
end of April to reconsider, at which time they would propose
organising the participation of foreign defence counsel without
the assistance of the organisation.


"They are willing to allow for a short period to establish
whether they may then be in a position to call a plenary session
at a later date," tribunal officials said.


"However, the international judges wish to emphasize that the
window of opportunity is closing quickly and they simply cannot
allow for endless delays."


Rights groups and legal advocates have called for swift trials
amid concerns that ageing Khmer Rouge leaders will die before
being brought to justice for one of the worst genocides of the
20th century.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

