

The presidents of Poland and Estonia Tuesday threw their weight
behind Ukrainian counterpart Viktor Yushchenko, saying they hoped
his pro-Western camp would emerge the winner in Ukraine's power
struggle.


Polish President Lech Kaczynski said the problems in Ukraine had
been a major focus of talks with Estonia's leader Toomas Hendrik
Ilves, who is visiting Warsaw.


"We are in agreement. Both Estonia and Poland support those
forces in Ukraine which have a Western orientation," Kaczynski
told reporters at a joint press conference.


Yushchenko is caught in a political impasse which reflects deep
divisions between the predominantly Russian-speaking industrial
east and the Ukrainian- speaking agricultural west, which has an
emotional significance for Poles since it was once part of their
country.


Ilves noted that Estonia, which spent decades under Moscow's
rule, and Poland, a former Soviet satellite state, understood
only too well the advantages of being in the Western camp.


"We were both victims of communism. What we have in common is
that we both successfully came out of that," Ilves said.


"Ukraine is obviously on all of our minds as the news comes in.
We very much want to see Ukraine as a genuine, independent member
of the Western club. That's in all our interests," he said.


The stand-off in Ukraine is the direct result of legislative
elections a year ago which saw the pro-Russia Regions party win a
crushing victory over Yushchenko's Our Ukraine party.


Tensions mounted late Monday, when Yushchenko announced the
dissolution of parliament and called snap legislative elections
for May 27.


But on Tuesday, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych slammed the
decree as "a fatal mistake" and urged the legislators to keep
working.


Yushchenko has pushed hard for full integration with the West
since gaining power in 2005, including membership of the NATO
military alliance -- which Poland and Estonia have both joined.


He has also sought to strengthen ties with the European Union, of
which Poland and Estonia became members three years ago.


Yanukovych, meanwhile, has favoured traditional ties with Moscow.

