

Battle debris littered the Somali capital Tuesday in the wake of
some of the fiercest fighting in the city's history.


Four days of combat in the Somali capital that began Thursday
left hundreds dead, according to residents, and forced thousands
to flee, after an Ethiopian offensive on clan fighters and
Islamist rebels.


Two days into a lull in fighting, a trail of decaying bodies
still littered a road near the city's soccer stadium, a battle
flashpoint and now an Ethiopian army base.


Outside a mortar-blasted grocery on the same road, a dead man lay
face-down in a pool of dried blood, his arm overlapping a teenage
boy's back.


At the roadside, a human leg protruded from a shallow ditch.


An AFP correspondent saw seven bodies Tuesday morning, while
residents said many more were decomposing inside houses and
elsewhere.


"Dead bodies are still lying on the streets. We cannot count them
therefore we do not have an exact number," said local resident
Sheikh Dahir Ali.


"There is not even a chance to bury the dead, let alone other
things," said Ali, one of the last residents to flee the area
that has become a virtual ghost town.


In the southern Al Kamin neighbourhood, the scene of the fiercest
clashes in recent days, the roadside was strewn with the trash of
conflict: fragments of exploded mortar, shell casings, wooden
ammunition boxes and spent magazines.


A Muslim veil, a plastic water container, blood-stained clothes
and spaghetti wrappers lay on the road used by many civilians to
flee the city.


The burnt-out wreckage of Ethiopian army trucks, blackened by
smoke from burning gasoline, sat on nearby wasteland.


Nearby, cut power cables dangled above the street and mortar-
blasted tree branches littered a broad Italian-style boulevard, a
damaged relic of the country's former colonial rule.


Alongside shattered houses, buildings that had survived the
recent heavy artillery fire bore bullet holes, either new or from
previous battles in the years following the 1991 ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre.


Ethiopian soldiers stood clutching rifles atop a building next to
the stadium where their tanks are based, a day after Ethiopian
troops shot dead four civilians in the area.


"The Ethiopian forces are opening fire at anybody who approaches
them. Nobody can go close to them," resident Aisha Elmi Ali told
AFP.


Fighting died off Sunday night, but feuding forces have dug in
positions on the opposite flanks of battle zones in southern
Mogadishu, preparing for further assaults.


Insurgents lay ready for battle behind sandbags in the street, an
AFP correspondent said.


Hardly any civilians were visible, after thousands poured out of
the city during recent violence.


The United Nations estimates that around 100,000 people have fled
escalating violence in Mogadishu city since February, nearly half
of them in the past 10 days.


The government has ordered civilians to vacate the worst-hit
areas of Mogadishu, raising fears of further battles.


"It is very risky for the people of Mogadishu to stay in the area
under military operations," government spokesman Hussein Mohamed
Mohamud told AFP.


Elders from the city's dominant Hawiye clan Tuesday pushed for a
ceasefire with Ethiopian troops to ease the tension as the
remaining Mogadishu residents sought food and shelter in their
wrecked city.

