

Sri Lanka captain Mahela Jaywardene has said that while memories
of a 5-0 thrashing of England will not be an issue for his side
come Wednesday's World Cup Super Eights clash, they could be for
their opponents.


Sri Lanka, after bouncing back in England last year to draw a
Test series 1-1, crushed their hosts in the one-dayers.


That series culminated in an emphatic eight-wicket win at
Headingley where Upul Tharanga (109) and Sanath Jayasuriya (152)
shared a world record first-wicket stand of 286 as Sri Lanka won
with more than 12 overs to spare.


Jayawardene, who said that series had been the launch-pad for a
run of form that has seen Sri Lanka tipped to repeat their 1996
World Cup triumph here, said he didn't expect last year's series
to have too much of a bearing now.


"It depends if England is thinking about it," Jaywardene
remarked.


"For us it's not an issue because we are playing in different
situations, different tournament, different conditions and
probably different personnel as well. Things have changed since
we played England."


Sri Lanka enjoyed a crushing 113-run victory against hosts West
Indies in Guyana on Sunday and Jayawardene, who scored a morale-
boosting 82 in that match, said: "The mood is pretty good. The
way we played against West Indies was very satisfying.


"We batted well in difficult conditions, the bowlers bowled
really well and the fielding was up to standard. For us it's
about starting that all over again," he added.


Reflecting on the England trip, Jayawardene added: "It was a
brilliant tour for us but we've come a long way. From that start
in England we've pushed on and played some really good cricket.


"The youngsters learnt a lot from that England trip. From there
onwards guys like (fast bowler) Lasith Malinga and (opening
batsman) Upul Tharanga have come up pretty well."


Jayasuriya, who briefly retired from Test cricket last year,
looked near his best during his 115 against West Indies and
Jaywardene was delighted by the form of the 37-year-old left-
hander, whose century was his 25th at this level.


"We felt when you come into a World Cup year it's important you
play all the matches. When you play all the time it keeps you
going so it probably was a good decision for him to come back and
play Test cricket as well.


"He's been brilliant. He's working harder, he's enjoying his
cricket and he played some really good innings, not just the one
you saw against the West Indies. He keeps going, that's the
character of the guy."


England skipper Michael Vaughan said his side's World Cup
"started" against Sri Lanka but Jayawardene, who praised his
opponents "individual talent" said he found such an attitude
curious.


"Every game is a big game because every win is two points. You
never know how many points will secure you a place in the semi-
finals.


He added: "If they've waited this long to see this is the time to
start their World Cup, I don't know if that's the right way to go
because every match we play is very important to us."

