

Anti-piracy canines Lucky and Flo have done it again, sniffing
out a cache of more than 50,000 illegal DVDs in Malaysia in their
third bust to date, industry officials said Tuesday.


The black Labradors helped enforcement officers seize the pirated
copies of movies in a raid late Monday in a suburb in Petaling
Jaya, a satellite town west of Kuala Lumpur, they said.


The latest raid comes hot on the heels of a seizure on Sunday in
the same suburb, where the two dogs led officers to a hidden room
stocked with fake DVDs and CDs worth 435,000 dollars.


"It was two nights on the trot," said Neil Gane, from the Motion
Picture Association (MPA), which brought the dogs to Malaysia.


"The authorities looked into two retail stores ... and patrolled
the rear and found two hidden compartments. They seized in excess
of 50,000 DVDs. Five men were subsequently arrested," Gane told
AFP, describing Monday's raid.


The dogs, which hail from Northern Ireland, are said to be the
only ones in the world trained to detect polycarbonate and
chemicals used in optical discs.


They were brought to Malaysia last month for a one-month trial by
the MPA, which investigates piracy for major motion picture
companies.


The labradors made their first bust on March 19, when they
travelled south to Johor state and helped officials to find
pirated discs worth millions of dollars in an office complex.


Following their success, Malaysian authorities said that piracy
syndicates were trying to kill the dogs and had put a bounty on
their heads.


Gane said security remained tight on the Lucky and Flo, and that
"both the Malaysian government and the MPA took the threats
seriously."


He said the pair may extend their stay in Malaysia beyond the
initial one-month trial given their success, while a regional
tour may be in the making.


"We're still in discussions with other governments in the Asia-
Pacific region and we may deploy them in other countries," Gane
said.


The MPA is also in discussion with Malaysia's Domestic Trade and
Consumer Affairs Ministry to develop a similar canine unit, he
said.

