

A technique to create "universal" blood that can be used in
transfusions for any blood group could be a breakthrough provided
a long series of tests is successful and the cost to blood banks
is low, experts said on Tuesday.


"If it does what it's supposed to do, it could be a leapfrog
advance in the way that blood transfusions are conducted across
the world," the World Health Organisation's Neelam Dhingra told
AFP.


She cautioned, though, that the technology could take between
five and 10 years to emerge from an exhaustive battery of tests
for safety and effectiveness.


Another potential barrier is price, she said in a phone interview
from Geneva.


"We don't know now how this is going to go [on price]," said
Dhingra, who is the WHO's coordinator for blood transfusion. "If
it's very expensive, obviously it would not be interesting for
developing countries."


The technology -- described in the journal Nature Biotechnology
on Sunday by an international team -- comprises two enzymes
designed to safely convert blood groups A, B and AB to group O,
the "universal" blood used in transfusions.


Under the ABO system of blood classification established in 1900,
group O red cells can be given to all individuals.


But A can only be given to A and AB individuals, and B can only
be given to B and AB individuals. Giving someone the wrong type
can trigger a massive, sometimes fatal attack on the transfused
cells by the host's immune system.


The enzymes break down the sugary molecules that form the cells'
antigens, or the triggers for the immune response. These antigens
are on the surface of A, B and AB cells, but not on O cells.


The enzymes are tailored together from two bacteria, one called
Elizabethkingia meningosepticum and the other called Bacteroides
fragilis.


The next phase will be to subject the enzymes to a full battery
of safety tests before they can be used in blood banks.


Bernard David, medical director of the French Blood Foundation
(EFS) praised the work as "an important scientific advance," but
noted it would not address the challenge of rhesus blood
transfusions, which in some circumstances can also trigger
adverse immune response.


Rhesus -- identified as positive (+) or minus (-) -- is a further
sub- classification in blood type, describing a protein on the
cell surface.


About 85 percent of people are Rhesus-positive, although the
proportion varies according to ethnic background.


Bernard Henrissat, a researcher at France National Centre for
Scientific Research (CNRS) at Marseille, worked with the US
biotech firm ZymeQuest to identify the two enzyme groups used to
build the antigen cutters.


"If all goes well, these products could be available in three to
five years, but tests would have be extremely cautious," he said.


Dhingra said that the tests would have to ensure that the enzymes
do not inflict any damage to red blood cells, whose role is to
transport oxygen around the body, and to verify that the new
substances to do not create new antigens in turn.


In addition, she said, there was a need to fine tune test methods
to confirm that "universal" blood is indeed free of antigens so
that a small number of cells with antigens are not passed on in
any transfusion.

