

President George W. Bush said he took climate change very
seriously Tuesday, a day after the US Supreme Court ruled the
government must regulate greenhouse gases, seen by analysts as a
potential watershed in fighting global warming.


A sharply divided court ruled Monday that greenhouse gases are
pollutants, and so the federal Environmental Protection Agency
was wrong to say it had no mandate to regulate them.


The decision dealt a new blow to Bush's administration, which has
been steadfast in refusing any limits on US industry or on its
gas-guzzling cars, arguing it could hurt the country's economy.


"The decision (of) the Supreme Court we take very seriously. It's
the new law of the land," Bush told reporters.


He insisted that "I've taken this issue very seriously. I have
said that it is a serious problem. I recognize that man is
contributing greenhouse gases."


But Bush argued that "anything that happens cannot hurt economic
growth. I care about the working people of the country but also
because in order to solve the greenhouse gas issue over a longer
period of time, it's going to require new technologies, which
tend to be expensive."


Bush said that "whatever we do, it must be in concert with what
happens internationally. Because we could pass any number of
measures that are now being discussed in the Congress, but unless
there is an accord with China, China will produce greenhouse
gases that will offset anything we do in a brief period of time.


He added that it was key to ensure that China and India, are a
part of "a rational solution."


Bush is strongly opposed to Kyoto's approach of binding cuts,
also called caps, in emissions and has instead promoted voluntary
action, backed by some incentives for cleaner energy sources and
gains in energy efficiency.


While the court's decision is unlikely to change US policy, it
has ramifications on several other ongoing issues, such as the
agency's refusal to regulate emissions from electricity plants
which produce some 40 percent of US carbon dioxide emissions.
Motor vehicles are responsible for just 20 percent.

