

World Cup organisers, already reeling from the shock exits of
crowd-pullers India and Pakistan, are confident the 2007
tournament will survive the West Indies' expected elimination.


World Cup chief executive Chris Dehring said the local committees
in the Caribbean will have to be resolute if the hosts, who have
lost all three of their Super Eights matches, fail to make the
semi-finals.


That would have a further diastrous effect on crowd figures which
been poor throughout the competition with many locals complaining
they have been priced out of the stadiums.


Other fans are furious over expensive park-and-ride schemes,
fussy security and the refusal to allow spectators right of re-
entry into the grounds.


"It (a West Indies exit) would be devastating for all the hearts
of the Caribbean but we can still put on a good tournament,"
Dehring told the BBC's Test Match Special.


"We can show we can appreciate cricket and we'll have to show
some character."


Dehring said the three first round matches in Kingston, which
featured the hosts had been sell-out affairs, but many ticket-
holders had not turned up to the matches.


"Tickets get into the hands of people who just can't attend, for
whatever reason," he said.


"I think we can be very proud in the Caribbean about what has
taken place so far. There's a still a month of the World Cup to
go. We are still focused on running this event professionally.
Let history be our judge."


In Bridgetown, where the final will be staged on April 28, the
local committee are already bracing themselves for an eerily-
empty Kensington Oval on April 15 when Bangladesh face Ireland in
the Super Eights.


That had been the date when it was expected India would lock
horns with Pakistan in one of the World Cup's marquee match-ups.


The Barbados government has even set up an emergency task force
to try and salvage the situation.


Barbados minister of tourism Noel Lynch told The Nation newspaper
that the task force had been created for a number of reasons
including the elimination of India and Pakistan, "which nobody
could have predicted", the poor performance of the West Indies
team, over-priced tickets, and the removal of "things like drinks
and music" from games.


Many fans were left feeling "this event is simply not a Caribbean
event", said Lynch.


He added that while hotel bookings were still running at 68-70
percent, there was weakness at the luxury end. Up to the
elimination of India, 80 percent of cabins on a cruise ship hired
for the duration had been booked.


Now, said Lynch, bookings on the ship were around 40 percent.


Barbados is trying to entice fans from Ireland with a new
marketing drive while Sri Lankan and Bangladeshi communities in
Florida are also being targeted.


Lynch admitted that one major challenge in the salvage effort was
to try and get back the large number of tickets which were sold
in India.


"The window is short, but we are working as much as we can," he
said.

