

India's Jeev Milkha Singh is basking in the magic of The Masters
and says intends to make the most of his breakthrough trip to
Augusta National Golf Club.


Singh, the first Indian to qualify for the year's first Major,
arrived at the fabled venue on Monday and has been awe-struck by
the sheer enormity of the prestigious tournament.


"It's like a dream. I'm enjoying every minute of it since
arriving. Driving down Magnolia Lane into the clubhouse, I was
really excited. I've only seen it on TV and now I'm actually
here," said Singh.


"Just coming in on Monday and playing a practice round, it was
just fantastic. I've never enjoyed an atmosphere like this before
in any parts of the world."


Singh, the Asian Tour's Order of Merit champion last season, got
straight down to business by playing nine holes with Major
winners Todd Hamilton and Shaun Micheel and veteran Fred Funk.
And his first impressions of Augusta National weren't exactly
what he envisaged it to be.


"On TV, it doesn't look hilly but when we got out there, I was
amazed by the undulation changes on the course. The greens are
amazing. People say it's like putting on a glass surface and it
is exactly just that.


"The key this week is to hit as many greens as possible and to
make the least three putts. It's so easy to drop shots on the
greens."


While Singh enjoyed catching up with Hamilton and Micheel, both
former regulars in Asia, the Indian took in their advice
especially on the greens. "They were telling me where the pins
would be tucked for the tournament and where to land on the
greens which was a big help," he said.


Over the past month, Singh has featured in the Arnold Palmer
Invitational, WGC- CA Championship and last week's Shell Houston
Open, finishing his last two tournaments in tied 28th and 78th
place respectively.


Those experiences have been beneficial as he prepares for his
biggest week yet of his career. "I need to be more conservative
which is a hard thing to do as it's against my style," said
Singh.


"I've learned that the pins are placed in tight places from day
one over here and it's eaten me up real bad. You can't be overly
aggressive and I need to keep reminding myself to aim for the
middle of the green and take two putts. However, the good thing
is that I feel really comfortable in the US," he said.


While only one Masters debutant Fuzzy Zoeller has won in his
first trip to Augusta National, Singh is quietly confident of
featuring in all four rounds this week.


He said that he had gained great confidence from his big win in
the lucrative Volvo Masters in Spain late last year.


"You gain experience from winning an event like the Volvo Masters
which included Europe's best players" he said.


"I now have confidence when I play against the top players and on
a tough course. I've played all four rounds in my previous two
Majors at the US Open which is set up tough, so the aim is to
that again this week," said Singh, who won four titles last
season to break into the world's top-50.

