

British Prime Minister Tony Blair and his heir apparent, finance
minister Gordon Brown, hit the campaign trail in Scotland Tuesday
seeking to stave off an embarrassing defeat in upcoming
elections.


Blair has rarely ventured north of the English border since 1999,
when his administration ushered in devolved government for
Scotland, currently governed by a coalition between his Labour
Party and the centre-left Liberal Democrats.


But with opinion polls showing the two parties facing trouble in
the Scottish Parliament elections on May 3, Blair is trying to
woo voters alongside Brown.


Blair has vowed to step down as premier by September and is
likely to announce a firm date soon after the May 3 vote -- so
Labour's performance at the Scottish polls is being seen as a
barometer of Blair's own legacy.


Brown, almost certain to succeed Blair as prime minister, is also
eager to deliver a good result for Labour in his homeland to
provide a springboard into the top job.


The current administration in Edinburgh is facing a strong
challenge from the Scottish Nationalist Party, which wants a
fully independent Scotland. An ICM poll for The Scotsman
newspaper Tuesday put the SNP four percentage points ahead of
Labour.


On the first formal day of electioneering Tuesday, Blair and
Brown, who are trying to smooth over their historically bumpy
relationship in the run-up to Blair's departure, sat side by side
at a Glasgow press conference to attack the SNP.


While Blair argued that the nationalists would lead Scotland down
"a track towards separation" which most Scots opposed, Brown
criticised the "incoherence" of SNP plans to fund independence
through North Sea oil revenues.


Scotland's devolved executive has powers over areas including
education, health and housing but the British government in
London retains control over defence, foreign policy and most
taxes.


Elsewhere in Britain, elections will also be held on May 3 for
the devolved Welsh Assembly and local councils in England.

