

Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said Tuesday he will
not regard a goalless draw as a positive result from their crunch
Champions League quarter- final, first leg against Roma.


French side Lyon, who many tipped to win the competition, left
the Olympic stadium with a 0-0 draw in the previous round, but a
2-0 victory for Roma at the Stade de Gerland saw the Italian side
through to the last eight.


"0-0 is a dangerous scoreline," Ferguson said at a press
conference here on the eve of the match, a 75,000 sell-out.


"I watched the video of Roma's home leg against Lyon, and Lyon
were the better team that night.


"But you all saw the result in the second leg. I think we have to
score tomorrow."


Winger Ryan Giggs echoed his coach's sentiments.


"It's important to score a goal away from home, and we always try
to do that in Europe," he said.


Ferguson moved to diffuse a row that began when he failed to
mention Francesco Totti when listing the Roma players he most
admires.


The United coach cited midfielders Daniele De Rossi and Mancini
as their key men and completely overlooked their exalted captain,
sparking an angry reaction among Romans who regard Totti as a
modern-day symbol of the Eternal City.


"Totti is one of the most important players in their team," said
the Scot.


"Maybe something was lost in translation, and I honestly don't
remember ignoring him.


"Of course we discussed him. It's unthinkable that we would
prepare for this match without considering him."


Ferguson expressed his admiration for Roma coach Luciano
Spalletti for sticking with a strange playing formation very few
teams use.


Totti, an unorthodox striker, plays as a lone forward but tends
to drop deep, making it very difficult to mark him and
effectively giving Roma a six-man midfield.


"It's a big decision to keep the system he's using, very brave,"
Ferguson said.


"Brave coaches are the best coaches."


Ferguson said Portuguese winger Cristiano Ronaldo could be the
one to open up the Roma defence and help them get that all-
important away goal.


"I think he is the best player in the world right now," he said.


United, who already have a long injury list which includes
defensive trio Nemanja Vidic, Mikael Silvestre and captain Gary
Neville, were dealt another blow when Park Ji-Sung was ruled out
before their plane left Manchester.


The South Korean midfielder injured his knee in Saturday's 4-1
home win against Blackburn.


This could mean Giggs playing wide on the left rather than as a
second striker and Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who scored United's
winning goal in the 1999 Champions League final, partnering Wayne
Rooney up front.

