

A massive police hunt involving some 400 elite officers was
underway Tuesday for two Japanese nationals kidnapped three days
ago in central Paraguay, and held for a 250,000-dollar ransom.


Hirokazu Ota, 62, the head of Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church
in the country, and his secretary were seized on Sunday in
Caaguazu, about 200 kilometers (120 miles) east of the capital,
Asuncion.


"They can't be very far," deputy police chief Pedro Mendez who is
leading the operation told reporters.


Ota has twice telephoned representatives of his company, Victoria
S.A, which manages land assets in Paraguay owned by other members
of the South Korea-based Unification Church since he was seized,
police said.


He first called around 10:00 pm local time on Sunday (0200 GMT
Monday), and then again at 04:00 am Tuesday (0800 GMT Tuesday),
police said.


Paraguayan authorities have identified his secretary as Sawako
Takayama, but reports in Japan gave her family name as Yamaguchi.


The two were snatched as they were driving in their four-wheel
drive car on the road linking the capital with Ciudad del Est,
some 330 kilometres (200 miles) to the east in the triangle where
Paraguay shares a border with Brazil and Argentina.


They were seized along with a Paraguayan policeman and his
girlfriend who stopped to try to help them, police said.


In his first call, Ota said the kidnappers were demanding a
ransom of 250,000 dollars, but in the second call he said the
ransom was 150,000 dollars.


Ota, who has lived in the country for 10 years, is the president
of the Victoria company. Police said the company was in direct
negotiations with the kidnappers for the release of the hostages.


Victoria has sparked controversy for several years for buying up
thousands of hectares in the Chaco region in the country's
center.


Japan's Kyodo news agency reported on Tuesday that the Paraguay
police have arrested several people in connection with the case.


But in Tokyo a Japanese foreign ministry official declined to
comment on the case "due to its sensitive nature."

