

Petr Cech believes Chelsea's unbreakable will to win is
propelling them to towards a quadruple trophy haul.


Jose Mourinho's side can take another step towards winning all
four major competitions by beating Valencia in the Champions
League quarter-final first leg at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday.


The London club, who have already lifted the League Cup, have had
to cope with a host of problems this season including injuries to
key players, with Cech, John Terry, Joe Cole and Arjen Robben all
sidelined for long spells.


The bitter dispute between Mourinho and owner Roman Abramovich
has also proved an unwelcome distraction. But Czech Republic
goalkeeper Cech has no doubts Chelsea have the right mentality to
overcome all obstacles as they approach the crucial final weeks
of a potentially historic campaign.


"You need to have a strong mentality because at the end of the
season every game is like a final," Cech said. "I think the
Valencia game will be like that. "You have to cope with the
pressure and be focused on the victory and your job on the pitch
in every game.


"We have shown already that this team has a strong mentality and
a winning mentality. Even with all the problems we have coped
with everything and are still chasing silverware in all the
competitions. We have enough experience and I hope that will help
us."


Cech insists his side deserve success in Europe as reward for a
traumatic season. He said: "I think it would be great for the
whole club to win the Champions League. It wasn't an easy season
for everyone with a lot of injuries and a lot of stuff going on
during the season.


"It is the beginning of April and we are still in all the
competitions and have one cup already. We are surely in a better
situation than we were one year ago.


"The Premiership is not over yet and on Wednesday we have the
possibility to take the first step into the semi-finals by
beating Valencia. We have been to the semi-finals two years ago
and we hope to do better this time."


Salomon Kalou's injury-time winner at Watford on Saturday kept
alive Chelsea's slender hopes of catching Premiership leaders
Manchester United and Cech claims it has provided the perfect
boost to the Blues as they prepare for Valencia.


"We are still in the title race and it was a huge goal," Cech
added. "It can help psychologically to play against Valencia.


"But it is very important to play well in defence if you want to
go through, especially in the first leg."

