

The UN Security Council on Tuesday deplored last month's violent
clashes between government troops and forces loyal to opposition
leader Jean-Pierre Bemba in the Democratic Republic of Congo
(DRC).


In a statement read by British Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry, the
council chair this month, the 15-member body said it "regrets the
use of violence, instead of dialogue, to resolve disputes and
urges all Congolese stakeholders to pursue negotiated solutions
to their differences."


It called on the DRC government "to respect the space and role
conferred on parties by the constitution with a view to ensuring
their effective participation in the national political debate."


DRC Government troops fought fighters loyal to Bemba in the Gombe
district of Kinshasa from March 22 to 25 in clashes in which at
least 163 people were killed.


The government forces unleashed their offensive after Bemba,
runner-up to Kabila in last year's presidential elections,
refused to integrate his militia into the army.


The Security Council pressed authorities and the UN mission in
DRC (known as MONUC) "to undertake the necessary investigations
into these events."


It cited communiques by the African Union and the Southern
African Development Community reaffirming "the sovereign right of
the Democratic Republic of Congo to have a single national army"
and urging "all armed groups to integrate into the national army
or to be demobilized."


Sunday, the Portuguese ambassador in Kinshasa Alfredo Duarte
Costa said a tentative deal had been reached to fly Bemba, who
has been holed up in the South African embassy since the clashes,
to Portugal for medical treatment.


Bemba would be in Portugal for "several weeks" for treatment on a
leg injury unrelated to the recent clashes, his supporters say.
He underwent an operation on his leg at a Lisbon hospital in
December.


Bemba committed to not engage in any political activity while in
Portugal, Costa said.


South Africa has been a key player in the peace process and
currently has about 2,000 troops serving in MONUC.


The DRC was the center of a brutal five-year-long war from 1998.
Hundreds of thousands of people were killed and at its height,
the conflict in the former Zaire drew in seven foreign armies.

