

Former England rugby union captain Jason Robinson revealed
Tuesday that he decided to retire after Sale delayed offering him
a new contract.


The 32-year-old Sharks captain will play his final club match
against Bath at Edgeley Park on Friday week.


The winger is however expected to figure in the World Cup before
hanging up his boots at the end of the year.


"Initially, it was my intention to do one more year and I spoke
to (coaches) Philippe (Saint-Andre) and Kingsley (Jones) last
October when they said they really wanted to sign me and that
somebody would give me a call," he said.


"It was about three months after that when somebody actually said
to me they wanted to talk to me.


"During that period, my wife and I prayed about it, whether to
play another year or another two years or to call it a day.


"And, before anybody at the club got back to me, I had already
made my mind up.


"I believe things happen for a reason. It might have needed that
delay for me to come to the right decision.


"There is no doubt that the club probably wanted to keep me but,
if you've got something that you want, then you probably need to
act a bit quicker to keep it.


"Maybe they weren't fast enough but I've no gripes with the club.
I've had some great years here and I am certainly not leaving on
a bitter note."


Robinson, who was a member of England's Grand Slam team in 2003
and led Sale to the championship last year, put off an
announcement about his retirement in January because of his
club's slump in form.


"It was a hard decision but the right one for me so I'll move
on," said Robinson, a born-again Christian.


"I still enjoy my rugby, it's not that I've fallen out with the
game or lost my passion, otherwise I wouldn't have made myself
available for England.


"But for many years now, my family have been on the back-burner.
They've followed me from pillar to post and had me at my worst.
I've come home grumpy and tired and unable to play with the kids
because I've got a sore neck.


"I've had 15 years of it in the top flight and I think it's time
to get out and just enjoy life."


Robinson, who scored 171 tries in 286 appearances for Wigan from
1992-2000, crowned a successful switch of codes when his try
helped England win the 2003 World Cup in Sydney.


Other than personal appearances, he has ruled out retaining an
involvement in rugby of either code and has no plans to take up
coaching.


"If I do anything within rugby, it will be a few appearances but
certainly not coaching," he said. "I couldn't think of anything
worse, to be honest.


"I might hob-knob at a few events but I'm not funny enough for
stand-up.


"There is actually a life away from rugby. My family are the main
things. We teach our children at home and I'm going to invest my
time with my children. That will take up most of my time.


"I cannot see for one minute me looking back and wishing I'd
played another year.


"I'll be on a farm somewhere, riding a horse with the kids. I'm
serious. I'd like an old-fashioned way of life, like the Waltons,
with a bit of land and a few horses."

