

US President George W. Bush on Tuesday praised Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe's "candour" over Japan's use of World War II sex
slaves as the premier tries to put a row on the issue behind him.


Abe, who is set for his maiden summit in Washington in a month's
time, caused an uproar last month when he denied Japanese troops
directly coerced so-called "comfort women" into army brothels.


The conservative premier has since said he stands by Japan's
landmark 1993 apology to comfort women that acknowledged wartime
authorities were involved "directly or indirectly" in their
plight.


In a telephone conversation, Bush told Abe that "he appreciated
his candour and noted that Japan today is not the Japan of World
War II," US national security spokesman Gordon Johndroe said in a
statement.


"President Bush said that he has confidence in the compassion of
the Japanese people," the spokesman added.


A Japanese official said Abe initiated the 20-minute call and
restated his commitment to the 1993 apology, which was issued by
then chief government spokesman Yohei Kono.


"Our prime minister told President Bush that he is following the
Kono statement and he said that he has repeatedly expressed
sympathy and an apology to comfort women," the foreign ministry
official told AFP.


Japan has been lobbying hard against a bill being considered by
the US Congress that would demand Tokyo issue a fresh,
unambiguous apology to comfort women and make amends.


The bill quietly died in the legislature in recent years but is
seen as more likely to be passed since the Democrats took control
from Bush's Republicans in January.


Abe's initial remarks have triggered virulent condemnation in the
US media and criticism in South Korea and China, with which the
premier has tried to reconcile since taking office in September.


Abe, who has vowed build a more assertive Japan proud of its
past, is due to pay his first visit to Washington as premier
later this month or in early May.


His predecessor Junichiro Koizumi was one of Bush's closest
overseas allies.


Historians say up to 200,000 young women, mostly from Korea but
also from China, Indonesia, the Philippines and Taiwan, were
forced to serve as sex slaves in Japanese army brothels.


Bush and Abe also discussed arrangements for the upcoming summit
and the situation in North Korea and Iraq, officials said.


The president thanked Abe for agreeing last week to extend by two
years an air force mission supporting US forces in Iraq, despite
widespread opposition both in the United States and Japan to
involvement in the war-torn country.


North Korea last month stormed out of six-nation talks, which
include the United States and Japan, in a row over frozen funds
that Washington agreed to release but whose transfer to
Pyongyang's account was delayed.


Abe and Bush "agreed that Japan and the United States will
cooperate to realise an early resumption of the six-way talks and
maintain close coordination between Japan and the United States,"
the Japanese official said.


The United States negotiated a February 13 deal under which North
Korea agreed to disable key nuclear facilities in exchange for
badly needed fuel aid.


Abe built his career championing a tough line on North Korea and
has refused to fund the deal due to a dispute over the communist
state's past kidnappings of Japanese civilians.


Japan, along with South Korea, was a top financial backer of an
earlier energy deal with North Korea reached in 1994 which
collapsed under Bush, who famously branded Pyongyang as part of
an "axis of evil."

