

A planned liquefied natural gas terminal in Croatia will better
help diversify Europe's energy sources than rival EU- or Russian-
backed plans, the head of the International Energy Agency said
Tuesday.


"The LNG terminal (on the Adriatic coast) is certainly the best
solution for diversity," IEA chief Claude Mandil told reporters
in Budapest as he presented the agency's updated country report
on Hungary.


The terminal, which is currently planned in Croatia, could
receive tankers from around the world and would transport gas via
pipelines to central and western Europe.


"It is the best solution because it's gas that can come from
almost anywhere in the world -- North Africa, Nigeria, the
Atlantic Basin... Qatar -- and it's not a fixed link, so if there
is a problem with one supplier you can switch to another
supplier," Mandil said.


"The problem is that (construction) has not started," said the
head of the IEA, which serves as an energy watchdog for
industrialised countries.


The European Union, which relies heavily on Russian gas imports,
has been trying to diversify its energy sources after suffering
supply disruptions in the last two years.


The 27-member bloc backs the construction of the Nabucco
pipeline, which would carry gas from the Middle East and Central
Asia to the EU, via Turkey and the Balkans.


Russia meanwhile is pushing to extend its existing Blue Stream
pipeline, which would carry gas along much the same route as
Nabucco.


Hungary, which relies almost entirely on Russia for gas, has been
under pressure to take sides between Brussels and Moscow.


Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany is reportedly leaning
towards an alliance with Russian gas giant Gazprom, saying supply
sources were still uncertain for Nabucco and the financing of its
construction was unclear.


The main right-wing opposition party Fidesz has severely
criticised this position, saying Hungary will soon go from "the
happiest camp in the Soviet bloc" -- a reference to the communist
regime which was less oppressive here than in other Soviet
satellite states -- to becoming the "happiest camp of Gazprom."


Mandil said however that until any one project became a reality,
Hungary need not choose between Nabucco, Blue Stream or the
Adriatic LNG terminal.


"I think it would not be safe to rule out any of them for the
time being," he said.


EU countries are concerned about the reliability of gas supplies
from the east after Russia threatened in December to cut off gas
supplies to Belarus following a price dispute.


In January 2006, a similar pricing conflict between Russia and
Ukraine led to a sharp fall in gas deliveries to Europe at a time
of peak demand during cold winter months.

