

World oil prices tumbled on Tuesday as major crude producer Iran
signalled that progress had been made to end its standoff with
Britain over the capture of 15 British sailors.


Prices were lower but remained above 67 dollars a barrel in
London, where on Monday they had hit 69.58 dollars -- the highest
level since September 1, 2006.


The price of Brent North Sea crude for May lost 1.29 dollars to
67.45 dollars in electronic deals in late London trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, fell 1.64 dollars to 64.30 dollars in floor
trading.


"It seems as if a lot of the tensions between the UK and Iran
have dissipated ... (and it) seems we're moving towards a
resolution of this problem, which may mean the market has further
to fall," said Base Commodities broker Christopher Bellew.


Crude futures had soared over the past week on concerns that
Iran, the world's fourth-biggest producer of oil, could move to
disrupt its energy exports should the crisis with Britain
escalate.


The detention by Iran of 14 men and one woman has further
poisoned relations between Iran and the West at time of mounting
international impatience with the Islamic republic over its
refusal to rein in its contested nuclear programme.


Iran and Britain on Tuesday started talks described as a first
step towards resolving the row over the capture.


Iran's top security official Ali Larijani said the new contacts
could create the conditions for ending the standoff as both sides
toned down rhetoric previously marked by anger and accusations.


"The British government has started diplomatic discussions with
the foreign ministry to resolve the issue of the British military
personnel," Larijani told state television's central news agency.


"It is at the beginning of the path. If they continue on this
path then logically conditions can change and we can go towards
ending this issue," he added.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair said Tuesday that the standoff
with Iran now faced a "critical" 48 hours.


Iran insists that the 15 marines and sailors were captured on
March 23 because they had illegally entered Iranian waters.
Britain claims they were taken while in Iraqi waters.


"There is some profit-taking in the oil market, reflecting ...
thinking that there won't be any real disruption to crude oil
supply and that the (British detention) situation will be
resolved," said Victor Shum, senior principal at Purvin and
Gertz.

