

The following are excepts from President George W. Bush's speech
and question and answer session with reporters Tuesday:


ON MILITARY OPERATIONS IN IRAQ


The reinforcements we've sent to Baghdad are having an impact . .
. And as more of those reinforcements arrive in the months ahead,
their impact will continue to grow.


It will be early June before all US forces dedicated to the
operation are in place, so this operation is still in its
beginning stages.


ON CONGRESS FUNDING IRAQ OPERATIONS


The House and Senate have spent this time debating bills that
undercut the troops ... substituting the judgment of politicians
in Washington for the judgment of our commanders on the ground,
setting an arbitrary deadline for withdrawal from Iraq, and
spending billions of dollars on pork-barrel projects completely
unrelated to the war.


Democrat leaders in Congress seem more interested in fighting
political battles in Washington than providing our troops what
they need to fight the battles in Iraq.


Congress' most basic responsibility is to give our troops the
equipment and training they need to fight our enemies and protect
our nation. They're now failing in that responsibility.


CONSEQUENCES OF FAILING TO FUND THE WAR


Delays beyond mid- April and then into May will affect the
readiness of the US military.


The army will be forced to consider cutting back on equipment,
equipment repair and quality-of-life initiatives for our Guard
and Reserve forces. These cuts would be necessary because the
money will have to be shifted to support the troops on the front
lines.


The army also would be forced to consider curtailing some
training for Guard and Reserve units here at home. This would
reduce their readiness and could delay their availability to
mobilize for missions in Afghanistan and Iraq.


The army would be forced to consider slowing or even freezing
funding for depots where the equipment our troops depend on is
repaired.


They will also have to consider delaying or curtailing the
training of some active-duty forces, reducing the availability of
these forces to deploy overseas.


If this happens, some of the forces now deployed in Afghanistan
and Iraq may need to be extended because other units are not
ready to take their places.


Some of our military families could wait longer for their loved
ones to return from the front lines, and others could see their
loved ones headed back to the war sooner than they need to.


ON HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI'S TRIP TO SYRIA


We have made it clear to high-ranking officials ... that going to
Syria sends mixed signals.


Meetings with (Syrian) President (Bashar al-) Assad lead the
Assad government to believe they're part of the mainstream of the
international community, when, in fact, they're a state sponsor
of terror; when, in fact, they're helping expedite, or at least
not stopping, the movement of foreign fighters from Syria into
Iraq; when, in fact, they have done little to nothing to rein in
militant Hamas and Hezbollah; and when, in fact, they destabilize
the Lebanese democracy.


ON SWAPPING IRANIANS DETAINED IN IRAQ FOR THE BRITISH HOSTAGES


The seizure of the (British) sailors is indefensible by the
Iranians, and that I support the Blair government's attempts to
solve this issue peacefully. . . . I also strongly support the
prime minister's declaration that there should be no quid pro
quos when it comes to the hostages.


CAN THE SURGE OF FORCES IN IRAQ SUCCEED?


As opposed to leaving Baghdad and watching the country go up in
flames, I chose a different route, which is to send more troops
into Baghdad. ...


Suiciders are willing to kill innocent life in order to send the
projection that this is an impossible mission. The whole strategy
is to give the Iraqi government time to reconcile, time to unify
the country, time to respond to the demands of the 12 million
people that voted.


What I'm worried about is that we leave before the mission is
done -- and that is a country that is able to govern, sustain and
defend itself -- and that Iraq becomes a cauldron of chaos, which
will embolden extremists . . . which would enable extremists to
have safe haven from which to plot attacks on America, which
could provide new resources for an enemy that wants to harm us.


What makes Iraq different from previous struggles is that
September the 11th showed that chaos in another part of the world
and/or safe haven for killers, for radicals, affects the security
of the United States.

