

British finance minister Gordon Brown on Tuesday defended his
decision to overhaul pensions taxation in 1997 which opponents
claim has caused pension funding problems.


Opposition politicians argue that the decision to scrap a so-
called dividend tax credit has adversely affected pension funds,
meaning that many retired workers have seen their pensions
reduced.


Brown, whose reputation is on the line ahead of his bid to become
prime minister later this year, said that ditching dividend tax
credits was "the right decision."


"It was the right decision for investment. It was the right
investment for our pensions and the right decision for our
economy," he said alongside Prime Minister Tony Blair in Glasgow.


Brown is widely expected to succeed Blair as prime minister when
he steps down later this year.


The row erupted last Friday after the release of confidential
documents, under Britain's Freedom of Information laws. They
revealed that officials had warned Brown the move would wipe out
about 75 billion pounds (111 billion euros, 148 billion dollars)
from workers' pension funds.


British pension funds are big shareholders in companies and rely
on dividends for part of their revenues.


After Blair's Labour party swept to power ten years ago, Brown
scrapped the so- called dividend tax credit -- which offered tax
relief on shareholder dividends.


According to Brown's Treasury department, other key factors are
to blame for current pension funding problems, such as the
dot.com stock market crash and the rise in life expectancy.


A Treasury spokesman added that dividend tax credits encouraged
companies to pay out their profits in dividends, rather than
reinvesting cash in their businesses.


Blair threw his weight behind his finance chief, saying that the
1997 decision had been taken collectively by his government.


"It was the right decision then -- and it is the right decision
now," he said.


The growing pensions row has overshadowed Blair and Brown's bid
to help their governing Labour party gain ground in Scottish
parliamentary elections.

