

Victor showed no fear, smoking a cigarette, waiting in line for
his turn on the cross.


But he cried out and openly wept as the five-inch,
(13-centimetre) stainless- steel nails -- pre-soaked in alcohol
to disinfect them -- were driven through his palms with the
ordinary carpenter's hammer.


Victor was one of at least 19 Filipinos who underwent ritual
crucifixion on Good Friday in the northern village of Cutud, as
part of a bloody annual spectacle that continues to shock
tourists and outsiders in this devoutly-Roman Catholic nation.


It was his 17th year imitating the Passion of Christ. He said he
was doing it so his mother would recover from a chronic illness.


But there was also personal ambition in his pain. "In just two
more years, I will be the one playing the Kristo," meaning he
will get the coveted position of carrying the cross.


Nine men were crucified under the burning sun in Cutud village,
north of the Philippine capital while 10 others also underwent
the same ordeal a few hours earlier in the nearby village of
Santa Lucia.


In both villages, one man, designated as the "Kristo" carried a
wooden cross to a hill, flanked by men dressed a Roman soldiers
in a grim parade.


The crucifixions were accompanied by scores of "magdarane" -- a
local term for self-flagellants or hooded men, whipping their
backs into a bloody tapestry in another imitation of Jesus
Christ's suffering.


This Good Friday practice has been going on for decades, spawning
controversy and attracting hordes of foreign and local tourists.


However the custom is not endorsed by the Roman Catholic church
and critics have charged that the whole affair is becoming a show
for the tourists.


Lourdes Pangilinan, local tourism officer, said authorities were
no longer allowing foreigners to take part after a British man,
who was scheduled to be crucified last year, dropped out at the
last minute.


Once on the hill, the men are placed upon three crosses and have
nails driven through their palms. The crucified men are then
allowed to remain hanging for about ten minutes before they are
taken down.


The men who undergo the crucifixion or the self-flagellation are
doing it either in fulfillment of a promise they made to God or
as penance for some misdeed. Many of them have gone through the
ordeal numerous times.


Ruben Enaje, 46, the Kristo in Cutud who carried the cross and
was nailed to it later, said he had been doing this for 15 years
after God spared his life when he fell from a building.


Danilo Ramos, another one of the crucified men, said he had been
doing this for 12 years already, since he was 15.


Ramos said he began after his mother was hospitalised due to a
heart attack. "This is a vow from the soul," he said. He did not
say if his suffering had led to his mother's recovery.


At Cutud, stretchers were waiting to carry the men to a first aid
station after they were taken off the cross. But at Santa Lucia,
the men had to walk by themselves to a health centre for post-
crucifixion treatment.


For the hundreds of people who gathered at both Cutud and Santa
Lucia, the spectacle was both shocking but had also been
commercialised in some way.


Virgie Valencia, 65, a Manila resident said she was disappointed
by the noise of the crowd and all the vendors at the site hawking
cold drinks, junk food and hats and fans.


"This is not solemn. This is not what I expected," she said.


However, she said the local townsfolk actually carrying out the
re-enactment appeared to be sincere in their faith.


A German tourist, travelling with a group of friends, identifying
himself only as Toby appeared dissatisfied as well.


"I would have expected it to be gruesome. But it felt like it was
just a big show," he said.


Another Westerner, clad in shorts and sunglasses, could be heard
laughing, "hey, look at all the blood," as the flagellants' whips
splattered him and his Filipina girlfriend.


As the crowds dispersed, local children could be seen, scavenging
the discarded whips as souvenirs, swinging the bloody flails at
each other playfully.

