

Morocco will present its plan to grant the disputed Western
Sahara territory self-rule to the UN Security Council on Tuesday,
a source close to the government told AFP.


"The (Moroccan) delegation will submit a full copy of the project
for autonomy which the kingdom plans to grant to the territory
under Moroccan sovereignty" to resolve the 32-year conflict, the
source said Friday.


The dispute "is hindering the process of Maghreb integration," it
added without giving details.


Saharawi officials close to Morocco were involved in drawing up
the draft.


Over the past months Morocco has sent envoys to a number of
countries including China to explain the government's proposals
for self-rule.


Moroccan Communications Minister Nabil Benabdellah said in
February the plan for the southern desert region rests on "three
axes," namely "the sovereignty of Morocco... the social and
cultural characteristics of the (Western Sahara) region and
international criteria for autonomy."


"A second phase of consultations on the autonomy plan will be
undertaken with political parties... and representatives of the
Sahrawi tribes, as well as at the international level, before the
plan is presented in April to the UN," Benabdellah said.


French President Jacques Chirac has praised the plan as
"constructive".


However, it was rejected by Algerian-backed separatist group the
Polisario Front, which has been fighting for full independence
for the Saharan or Saharawi people since 1973.


Polisario chief Mohamed Abdelaziz on Sunday criticised France and
Spain for supporting Morocco's stance.


Morocco annexed the desolate but phosphate-rich northwest African
territory after the withdrawal of the region's former colonial
power Spain and neighbour Mauritania in the 1970s, settling it
with around 300,000 Moroccans in 1975.


A war ensued with the armed Polisario Front independence movement
which contested Rabat's sovereignty, ending only in 1991 with a
UN-brokered ceasefire.


Since then, the United Nations has tried several times to
organise a referendum on self-determination.


The presentation of the project on Tuesday coincides with the
start of consultations on the Western Sahara at the Security
Council, according to Moroccan press reports.


On April 27, the Council is to vote on a possible extension of
the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
mandate which runs out three days later.

