

Iraqi and US soldiers swept into the troubled central city of
Diwaniyah on Friday, launching a major crackdown against
militiamen amid fierce clashes that left at least one dead.


Security forces slapped a curfew on the city and sealed off its
approaches, as witnesses and a local official reported clashes
between the soldiers and Mahdi Army militiamen loyal to radical
Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr.


"Iraqi army troops swept into the city in the early morning hours
April 6 to disrupt militia activity and return security and
stability here back to the government of Iraq," the US military
said.


"Soldiers of the 8th Iraqi Army Division supported by soldiers
and paratroopers from multi-national division Baghdad began
Operation Black Eagle at approximately 6:30 am (0230 GMT)," it
added.


The operation came two days after Iraq said a massive crackdown
launched in Baghdad eight weeks ago was being extended to other
flashpoint areas.


One person was killed and 19 others wounded in the Diwaniyah
clashes on Friday, said Hamid Gaati, head of the local health
department, and a security official.


Gaati accused US forces of preventing ambulances from
transporting the wounded to hospital, and urged humanitarian
organisations to bring casualties in for treatment.


An local aide of Sadr confirmed that Mahdi Army militiamen and US
troops were clashing around Salim Street and Al-Askari.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said, adding that leaders of Sadr's movement were
to meet in the city on Saturday.


The Americans believe that Sadr, a leading opponent of the US-led
military presence in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile
to escape the Baghdad crackdown.


They have branded his Mahdi Army the most dangerous threat to
stability in Iraq, greater even than Al-Qaeda.


An Iraqi army source said that 25 suspected insurgents had been
detained in the operation, which he said would continue for
several days.


"The Iraqi police are being infiltrated by militia and now the
Iraqi army and the US military control all the police stations
and checkpoints and the streets," he said.


Polish aircraft dropped leaflets over the city ordering local
police to stay at home and warning that anyone who went out with
a weapon would be considered a target, a military spokesman
confirmed.


"Iraqi police in Diwaniyah must stay at home until further
notice. Any police holding weapons outside their homes will be
treated as targets and be killed," a witness quoted the leaflet
as saying.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers were drafted in from neighbouring
towns such as Kut, Hilla and Najaf to raid suspected militia
hideouts in Diwaniyah, an Iraqi officer said.


Diwaniyah has seen repeated clashes between the security forces
and Shiite militias, and between rival militia groups. Last
August, nearly two dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of militiamen
were killed.

