

Japanese figure skating sensation Mao Asada has a daunting task
in her quest for gold at her first Olympics in Vancouver -- and
it's not about perfecting her awesome jumps.


"I want to be able to speak English soon ... rather than as a
long-term goal," 16-year-old Asada, who narrowly lost to
compatriot Miki Ando for the women's title at the recent world
championships, said Friday.


Asada, who was a few months too young to compete at the Turin
Olympics and the worlds last year, has been training mainly in
Los Angeles since this past season under American coach Rafael
Arutunian.


"As I'm training in America, of all places, I want to attend a
local school to study English," said Asada, a high school student
in Nagoya, a commercial and industrial hub in central Japan, also
home to Ando and other star skaters.


Hugely exposed at home with five TV commercials, Asada said
training in the United States let her lead a "normal life"
without media frenzy.


"What I feel about living in America is that foods are quite
different, first of all. And everybody, including my coach, is
assertive," said the pony-tailed girl who said she has no
boyfriend and enjoys shopping and playing with a pet poodle.


Asada was speaking with foreign journalists on the day she and
her older figure skater sister Mai, 18, were named as "goodwill
ambassadors" for Japan-Canada tourism.


"Hello, everyone. Nice to see you," she said in English in her
brief introduction before making use of an interpreter.


Asada, whose choreographer is Canadian Lori Nichol, has been
invited to perform in Canada with the popular Canadian Stars on
Ice show later this month, boosting her Canadian connection.


Asada, one of a few women to master the 3.5-revolution triple
Axel, bungled a triple-triple combination in the short programme
at the worlds here two weeks ago. But she scored record points in
the free skating to finish second.


Ando, 19, the only woman ever to land a quadruple in competition,
won the gold by switching a planned quadruple Salchow to a triple
to play it safe in the free skating.


Injury-hit South Korean Kim Yu-Na, 16, fell twice in the free
skating and finished third.


"I'll have to train harder and become more confident ahead of
competitions," Asada said. "I want to jump a quad (in
competition) if I become steady with it through training."


Kim, who is 20 days older than Asada, also could not compete in
the Turin Olympics last year. But the two former world junior
champions have each won the Grand Prix final, a premier senior
event with a lower age limit.


"Even when I was small, I really wanted to compete in the
Olympics. I want to execute all of my techniques well at the
Olympics and perform to a standing ovation from the spectators."

