

The return of 15 British naval personnel from Iran was
overshadowed in the press here Friday by the deaths of four
troops in Iraq, including two women, which they said may have had
Iranian involvement.


All newspapers carried Prime Minister Tony Blair's comments after
learning of the deaths on Thursday just as the 15 arrived back in
Britain after being held for 13 days in the Islamic republic.


Blair said it was too early to say if the attack in Basra was
committed by Iran- backed insurgents, but he repeated his
assertion that elements in Tehran were "backing, financing,
arming, supporting terrorism in Iraq".


The Guardian said the bomb attacks, which bring the total number
of British dead in Iraq this week to six and the overall death
toll since 2003 to 140, seemed to be the work of Shia "rogue
militia" suspected of links with Iran.


One unnamed senior army source in Basra was quoted by the left-
of-centre publication as saying: "Intelligence suggests (weapons)
are coming from Iran but there is very little hard evidence."


The Daily Telegraph, which has strong links to the military
brass, said: "It is becoming increasingly apparent that Iran is
playing a major role in fomenting the insurgency in southern Iraq
by providing terrorists with bombs and advanced technological
knowledge.


A conservative, right-of-centre newspaper, it also said the
deaths of the two British servicewomen would raise questions
about putting female troops on the front line.


The Independent, a left-of-centre newspaper which opposed the
war, said reports indicated the roadside bombing was caused by
charges similar to those the Iranian Revolutionary Guards have
allegedly supplied to Shia militia.


It also said the area in which the attack happened -- the
Hayaniyah district of Basra -- is a stronghold of Muqtada al-
Sadr's Mehdi Army, which is fighting a rival Shia militia, the
Badr Brigade.


"The Iranians, it is claimed, back both factions and have
encouraged them to carry out attacks on British forces," it
added.


The Times also led on the deaths, saying the bombings had fuelled
the row with Iran before focusing on the navy inquiry into how
the 15 personnel came to be detained.


The middle market and tabloids were less circumspect.


The Daily Mail showed a picture of Iraqis holding up fragments of
the British soldiers' Warrior armoured vehicle and a camouflage
helmet under the headline "Iran's Real Easter Gift".


Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said on Wednesday he was
releasing the 15 naval personnel as a "gift" to the British
people but the paper said the blast showed "his regime's true
feelings towards our servicemen and women".


"The blast exposed Ahmadinejad's conciliatory words as callous
hypocrisy," it added.


The Sun, newspaper of the rank-and-file troops, said Ahmadinejad
has "our blood on his hands", claiming the bomb attack was
"almost certainly engineered" by the Iranian president.

