

Conservation groups and politicians urged an immediate global
response to a damning UN climate report unveiled Friday which
predicts a catastrophic future for the planet.


"The urgency of this report, presented by the world's top
scientists, should be matched with an equally urgent response by
governments," said Hans Verolme, director of the World Wildlife
Fund's global climate change programme.


"There's no escaping the facts: global warming will bring hunger,
floods and water shortages. Poor countries that bear the least
responsibility will suffer most -- and they have no money to
respond."


The report by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) said that up to 30 percent of animal and plant species
will be vulnerable to extinction if global temperatures rose by
1.5-2.5 C (2.7 F to 4.5 F).


It said the world's have-nots would be worst hit by the climate
change, predicting greenhouse gases would change rainfall
patterns, intensify tropical storms, accelerate the melting of
Arctic ice and mountain glaciers, and amplify the risk of
drought, flooding and water stress.


"This is a glimpse into an apocalyptic future," said Greenpeace
International campaigner Stephanie Tunmore. "The earth will be
transformed by human induced climate change, unless action is
taken soon and fast."


The Friends of the Earth asked the world's rich nations to cut
emissions to avert a looming "humanitarian catastrophe."


"Unless we take action ... far worse is yet to come, condemning
millions in the poorest parts of the world to loss of lives,
livelihoods and homes. Climate change is no longer just an
environmental issue," said Catherine Pierce, the group's climate
campaigner.


"It is a looming humanitarian catastrophe, ultimately threatening
our global security and survival," she said.


A researcher at Britain's Reading University said the impact
could be grim for industrialised northern Europe.


"Where we may get problems across the whole of Europe is with hot
summers like 2003 and that's particularly drastic for crops," Tim
Wheeler, an academic from the university's department of
agriculture said.


The European Commission, meanwhile, seized on the report as
evidence that the EU's policy for tackling climate change is the
right one.


EU leaders agreed tough targets last month for reducing emissions
of the gases that cause global warming, with the aim of limiting
the rise in temperature to below two degrees Celsius, compared to
pre-industrial levels.


"The report shows many of the serious impacts that would occur if
global warming exceeded the EU's target of not more than two
degrees Celsius above the pre- industrial level," European
Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said.


"The temperature today is already almost 0.8 degrees Celsius
above that level, so the world needs to act fast if we are to
succeed in stabilising climate change and thereby prevent its
worst impacts," he said.


The deputy chairman of the European Parliament's environment
committee, Satu Hassi, urged developed countries to set aside
their climate policy differences before it is too late.


"Instead of squabbling over who is doing the least to combat
change, developed countries within the EU and elsewhere should be
forging ahead with efforts to prevent a potential climate
catastrophe," he said.


Hassi urged German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who brokered last
month's climate change accord, to use an upcoming Group of Eight
summit to get the major industrialised powers on board.

