

Iran exerted "pyschological pressure" on 15 British naval
personnel it held for 13 days, a top British officer said Friday
as he defended their actions and a military inquiry started into
the capture of the group.


The 15 were meanwhile to give a press conference on Friday, one
day after their emotional return to Britain.


The Royal Navy board of inquiry into the tense, two-week stand-
off will look at the rules of engagement, intelligence gathering,
equipment and procedures to prevent any repeat, the head of the
Royal Navy, Admiral Sir Jonathon Band told the BBC.


It would also look at the alleged confessions made by some of the
group, including the only woman, Leading Seaman Faye Turney,
which appeared to have been made under "a certain amount of
psychological pressure", he added.


Band, who is First Sea Lord, confirmed reports that the Royal
Navy had suspended all boarding operations in the northern Gulf
while it carried out a complete review of the March 23 detention.


The return of the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal
Marines made headline news here Friday, but coverage was tempered
by the deaths of four soldiers in southern Iraq.


Two of the four were women. The deaths bring the British death
toll in Iraq in the last week to six and 140 since the start of
the US-led invasion in March 2003.


Prime Minister Tony Blair said that "elements" in Iran were
backing insurgent attacks in Iraq.


British newspapers highlighted similarities between explosive
charges used by insurgents in southern Iraq and Iranian weapons.


The Sun tabloid said Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has
"our blood on his hands", claiming the bomb attack that killed
the four soldiers was "almost certainly engineered" by the
Iranian president.


As the 15 naval personnel continued their debriefing at Royal
Marines Base Chivenor in Devon, southwest England, Admiral Band
strongly defended them against charges that they surrendered too
easily.


"I would not agree at all that it was not our finest hour," Band
told BBC radio. "I think our people have reacted extremely well
in some very difficult circumstances," he said.


The decision to board and search a merchant ship which led to
their seizure was "absolutely proper" but there would now be a
"complete review" of the incident.


He confirmed the review would look at the rules of engagement for
British forces operating in the area, but rejected claims they
could have fought back against their captors.


"It is quite clear to me, in the context of the operation that
morning, with the force that was shown against them, they made
exactly the right decision. I stand by what they did," he said.


"This was not open combat. This was not an attack on a street.
This was doing absolutely legal boarding operations in a legal
part of the world where they were illegally acted upon.


"When you are in that situation as servicemen, you have a
situation in front of you, you have rules of engagement, and then
you have to make a judgment with respect to the danger of your
life of what you do.


"From what we think we know -- and obviously this will be
confirmed in the debriefing -- I think they acted extremely
sensibly."


The admiral also defended the way the group acted in detention,
despite criticisms that some had been too willing to give
interviews and "apologise" for their actions.


"I think they acted with considerable dignity and a lot of
courage. They appear to have played it by the rules, they don't
appear to have put themselves into danger, others into danger,
they don't appear to have given anything away," he said.

