

US employment growth accelerated in March with 180,000 new jobs
added, the government said Friday in a sign that the economy has
more momentum than some had anticipated.


The increase in nonfarm payrolls, seen as one of the best
indicators of economic momentum, was much stronger that the gain
of 135,000 expected on Wall Street.


The Labor Department said the unemployment rate, calculated on a
separate survey of households, fell to 4.4 percent from 4.5
percent a month earlier. The last time the rate was lower was in
May 2001.


Additionally, the agency revised up its estimate for February to
show 113,000 new jobs were created instead of 97,000, and for
January to 162,000 from 146,000.


"This is a pretty solid report," said Scott Brown, chief
economist at Raymond James and Associates.


Brown said the data "provides strong support for consumer
spending," which accounts for two-thirds of US economic activity.


The report appears to support the hypothesis of Federal Reserve
chief Ben Bernanke and others that the world's biggest economy is
able to weather a big slump in housing and will maintain modest
growth in 2007.


"It does look like the overall economy is going to improve as the
drag from housing wanes," Brown said.


John Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia Securities, said the
gains "suggest forward momentum for the economy with better gains
in consumer incomes and spending."


But he said the wage component of the report is "enough to
maintain Fed inflation concerns."


Average hourly wages rose 0.3 percent in March to 17.22 dollars.
Earnings have risen 4.0 percent in the past year.


The average work week rose slightly to 33.9 hours in March from
33.8 in the prior month.


The job and wage gains are likely to allay concern about
softening US economic conditions, but could prompt increased
concerns about wage-driven inflation.


The Federal Reserve, citing a tight labor market, has indicated
it remains vigilant on inflation and could lift interest rates to
keep price pressures in check. The Fed has left its base federal
funds rate at 5.25 percent since June.


Brown said the data overall "has got to reduce the odds of a rate
cut."


As a result, he said the strong report may be a disappointment to
the stock market and investors hoping for easier monetary policy,
even though the risks of a broader economic slowdown have been
reduced.


The overall employment gain was led by 137,000 new service-sector
jobs, including 54,000 in education and health.


The report cited a rise of 56,000 construction jobs, essentially
erasing a similarly steep drop in February, which had been the
sharpest decline in the sector since 1991.

