

US negotiators left Beijing on Friday without resolving a
financial sanctions dispute that threatens to derail efforts to
end North Korea's nuclear programme.


Senior US Treasury official Daniel Glaser and his colleagues left
after 13 days of talks, the US embassy said, without any deal
announced on the return to North Korea of about 25 million
dollars frozen in a Macau bank.


"The US government team has departed for Washington, but our
discussions and common efforts with all parties continue," US
embassy spokeswoman Susan Stevenson said.


Their departure cast further doubt over whether North Korea may
miss an initial deadline to shut down its key nuclear facilities
by April 14.


Under a six-nation agreement signed here on February, North Korea
agreed to disable its Yongbyon reactor and allow UN nuclear
inspectors back into the country by the deadline in exchange for
economic aid and diplomatic concessions.


Despite the end of the talks on Friday, Stevenson said the United
States had not given up on North Korea closing Yongbyon on
schedule.


"We still believe it is possible to meet the 60-day (April 14)
deadline and we are working with other parties to achieve that
goal," Stevenson said.


In Seoul, South Korea's Unification Minister Lee Jae-Joung also
said the February 13 accord was still valid and was being delayed
by technical matters.


"The February 13 agreement is not broken... (North Korea) is
working actively to (implement) it, but it is only being delayed
due to technical problems," Lee said.


While in Beijing, Glaser had talks with Chinese, North Korean,
South Korean and Macau officials.


But he was unable to broker a deal over the money that was frozen
in the Banco Delta Asia in Macau since 2005 after the US Treasury
accused the bank of helping North Korea launder earnings from
illicit activities.


The United States said last month it would free up the funds and
that they would be transferred to a North Korean account with the
Bank of China in Beijing.


However, the state-owned lender has reportedly refused to accept
the money for fear of possibly affecting its credit rating.


Further complicating matters, some of the money also belongs to
individuals, rather than the North Korean government.


One account holder, the owner of Pyongyang-based Daedong Credit
Bank, said he had received guarantees from Macau financial
authorities that his funds -- reportedly seven million dollars --
would not be handed over to North Korea.


Christopher Hill, the chief US envoy to the six-nation talks that
reached the nuclear accord, said in Washington at the start of
Glaser's visit that he expected the banking issue to be resolved
in a "couple of days".


The US embassy gave no reason on Friday for why the issue was not
resolved as quickly as Hill predicted.


However Glaser, the US deputy assistant Treasury secretary for
terrorist financing and financial crimes, is expected to return
to Beijing for further talks but no time has been agreed,
according to a US official.


The April 14 closure of Yongbyon and the return of International
Atomic Energy Agency inspectors is meant to be the first step in
a long, phased, process of eventual complete North Korean
disarmament.


North Korea would eventually receive one million tonnes of heavy
fuel or equivalent energy aid and receive a range of diplomatic
concessions in return for permanently disarming.

