

The World Health Organisation on Friday urged countries to join
forces to tackle the growing number of cross-border threats to
public health, including avian influenza and HIV/AIDS.


"When the world is collectively at risk, defence becomes a shared
responsibility of all nations," WHO Director General Margaret
Chan said in a statement to mark World Health Day on Saturday.


New diseases, such as the SARS outbreak in Asia in 2003 and human
cases of H5N1 bird flu in recent years, have been emerging at a
rate of at least one a year in recent decades, according to the
UN health agency.


Outbreaks can no longer be handled as a purely national problem,
because they threaten lives and the economy worldwide, it added.


H5N1 bird flu is widely thought to have jumped the species
barrier into humans with outbreaks in southern China, but the
disease was only detected after it spread into Hong Kong in 1997.


Pneumonia-like SARS, which infected more than 8,000 people and
killed more than 800, also caused an estimated 60 billion dollars
in business losses in the third quarter of 2003 alone, according
to the WHO.


HIV/AIDS was unknown until its discovery in a patient in the
United States in 1981. The immune deficiency disease claimed
about 2.9 million lives last year and currently affects 39.5
million people worldwide, according to UN data.


The WHO is pinning its hopes for greater cooperation on revised
international health regulations passed by its 193 member nations
two years ago, which are due to enter into force on June 15,
2007.


Under the old 1969 regulations, countries were only been obliged
to inform the WHO about cases of three infectious diseases:
cholera, plague and yellow fever.


The new version broadens the scope to all illnesses that might
threaten other countries.


"We need to ensure that all countries are equipped to tackle
health threats with solid health systems," WHO spokeswoman Fadela
Chaib told AFP.


"For example, if countries affected by bird flu can't control it
at home, then there's a collective risk. The more new clusters of
bird flu there are, the greater the chance that the virus will
mutate," she added.


Scientists fear the H5N1 bird flu virus could mutate into a form
easily spread among humans, leading to a global pandemic with the
potential to kill millions.


The WHO said in a background paper that functioning health
systems were key links of the chain for security, but most
national services were "inadequate". It also highlighted a global
shortage of 4.0 million health workers.

