

South African club football faces a reality check Saturday when
Mamelodi Sundowns host title holders Al-Ahly of Egypt in an
African Champions League final-round qualifier.


Never slow to boast, South African players, officials and
supporters believe their multimillion-dollar football show is the
best on a continent where many trophy winners are lucky to
receive a medal.


But when it comes to the true test of strength - winning the
annual African Champions League - South Africa fall far short of
countries like Egypt, Morocco and Nigeria.


Johannesburg has had but one Champions League-winning parade
through its wide, often congested streets, and that was 12 years
ago when Orlando Pirates stunned ASEC 1-0 in Ivory Coast after a
drawn first leg.


Sundowns made the 2001 final only to come off a poor second best
against Ahly with a draw before a pitfully small crowd in
Pretoria followed by a three-goal roasting before 80,000
Egyptians.


Many other campaigns by a variety of clubs have ended
surprisingly early, leading to an increasing lack of interest
from the public and media in the premier African Football
Confederation club competition.


However, the arrival in South Africa of five-time African
champions Ahly has triggered interest with the build-up rivalling
stories on the Cricket World  Cup in the West Indies for back-
page space.


Sundowns are about to retain the domestic title and have a soft
quarter-finals draw in the national cup, leaving Ahly as the
centre of attention for experienced coach Gordon Igesund and is
players.


About to win the South African championship with a fourth club,
former Austria- based professional Igesund craves international
success and is relishing the chance to confront the African Club
of the Century.


"We admire what Ahly have done for African football and
acknowledge their achievements, but our clash on Saturday is all
about form, not pedigree," he said Friday.


"I have studied many DVDs of Ahly, analysing their set pieces,
their stars and how they build attacks. My players know what is
expected of them and the worst result I will accept is a goalless
draw."


Counterpart Manuel Jose, Portuguese mastermind of the Ahly
Champions League triumphs of 2001, 2005 and 2006, believes the
winner of the tie can go to claim the one million dollar top
prize and qualify for the FIFA world championship.


"This will be our toughest match in the Champions League this
year. Ahly and Sundowns have much in common, dominating
domestically and supplying many players to the national squads,"
he said.


Where Jose scores over Igesund is in experience with goalkeeper
Essam al-Hadary, defender Wael Gomaa, midfielder Mohamed Shawky
and strikers Flavio Amado and Emad Moteab forming a powerful
spine.


Sundowns boast a good goalkeeper in Calvin Marlin while Surprise
Moriri is an inventive midfielder and Venezuelan striker Jose
Torrealba scores regularly, but Ahly promise to provide a test
they seldom experience in South Africa.


Ahly are among seven Champions League title holders in action
Saturday and Sunday with the Abidjan clash of ASEC and Wydad
Casablanca of Morocco bringing together two.


Another clash of former winners pits Tout Puissant Mazembe
Englebert of the Democratic Republic of Congo, one of just three
clubs to successfully defend the title, against FAR Rabat of
Morocco in Kinshasa.


Esperance of Tunisia, winners once and runners-up twice, host
Young Africans of Tanzania while two-time holders Jeunesse
Sportive Kabylie of Algeria tackle Cotonsport Garoua in north
western Cameroon.


Nasarawa United of Nigeria entertain Al-Hilal of Sudan, Maranatha
Fiokpo of Togo host Etoile Sahel of Tunisia and Etoile of Congo
meet Al-Ittihad of Libya in other first leg fixtures.


Return matches are scheduled for the weekend of April 20-22 with
the eight winners split into two groups and the losers entering
the second-tier African Confederation Cup.

