

China is carrying out a nationwide inspection of its wheat gluten
after dozens of cats and dogs died in North America from eating
tainted pet food, state media said Friday.


Last week the US Federal Drug Administration (FDA) identified
melamine, a substance used in fertilizer in Asia and also an
ingredient in producing some plastics, in wheat gluten in
Canadian pet food blamed for killing a handful of cats and dogs
across North America.


"Sampling and examination are under way," Xia Wenjun, an official
with the press office of the General Administration of Quality
Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, told Xinhua on Friday.


The investigation will target melamine, found in the pet food
recalled by Ontario-based pet food maker Menu Foods, Xinhua said,
after an unknown number of cats and dogs suffered kidney failure
and some died after eating contaminated food.


"We will announce the results as soon as the investigation is
completed," Xia added.


Menu Foods has recalled dozens of products, and several other US
pet food producers also began pulling their products off store
shelves.


Investigations have so far pointed the finger at Chinese
suppliers of wheat gluten to pet food makers.


On March 30 the FDA ordered its field personnel to detain wheat
gluten imported from China's Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology
Development Co because it contained melamine.


China initially denied that the country had exported contaminated
pet food ingredients, according to the official People's Daily
newspaper Tuesday.


Xia said that the administration would stay in touch with the US
Embassy in China and take further measures based on developments
in the United States.


She made no comment on Xuzhou Anying Biologic Technology
Development Co.


The company situated in eastern China's Jiangsu Province insisted
they had never exported wheat gluten to the United States.


Thirty-eight pets are believed to have died after eating tainted
pet food in Oregon state and the nationwide US death toll from
the crisis may be far higher, a US veterinarian official said
Thursday.

