

China's Goldeast Paper, one of the largest high-gloss paper
makers in the world, on Friday denounced US penalty tariffs on
Chinese paper exporters as "hegemonic".


"The decision by the US Department of Commerce to impose the
countervailing duties on Chinese paper industry is absolutely
unfair. It is (a form of) hegemonic trade," said a statement by
Goldeast Paper.


"We believe the US Department of Commerce will correct the
mistake very soon and we will certainly use every channel and
adopt every legitimate means to resist this to the very end," the
statement said.


The United States announced the unprecedented decision last
Friday, reversing a 23-year-old US policy of not applying duties
to subsidised goods from so-called non-market economies such as
China.


The penalty tariffs on China were aimed to offset government
subsidies, as Washington grapples with its massive trade deficit,
which hit more than 200 billion dollars last year, with the
world's most populous nation.


The decision was based on a case brought by US firm NewPage
Corp., which contended Chinese high-gloss paper imports were
fuelled by subsidies such as tax breaks, debt forgiveness, and
low-cost loans that posed unfair competition to US-made paper.


The preliminary countervailing duty is 20.35 percent against
Goldeast Paper, 10.9 percent against Shangdong Chenming Paper
Holdings and 18.16 percent against all other Chinese high-gloss
paper exports.


According to statistics from the US Department of Commerce,
imports of high- gloss paper from China soared 177 percent from a
year ago to 224 million dollars in 2006.


However, Goldeast said that should not justify the duties, which
it said were "implementing a meticulously planned strategy of
trade containment directed against China under the incitement of
the Department of Commerce."


The company said the decision was made according to figures of US
imports of the goods in 2005, when imports from China accounted
for only 13 percent, lower than those from the European Union,
Canada and South Korea.


But no such duties were imposed on Canadian and European
exporters and only 0.04 percent to 1.76 percent were imposed on
South Korea, the statement said.


The Chinese government last Saturday expressed strong
dissatisfaction with the decision from Washington.


"The decision brings great harm to the interests and feelings of
Chinese businesspeople and is not acceptable," said commerce
ministry spokesman Wang Xinpei.

