

Turkey's suspension of talks with Gaz de France on the French
firm's possible participation in a major gas pipeline is not a
final decision, a foreign ministry official said Friday.


The official was commenting on a press report Thursday that the
state-owned oil and gas company BOTAS had suspended talks with
GDF in reaction to a French bill calling for jail sentences for
those who deny that Ottoman Turks committed genocide against
Armenians during World War I.


"This is not a final decision. We understand that the negotiating
process has not yet come to an end," the diplomat told AFP on
condition of anonymity.


"This is a commercial issue between companies and they will make
the final decision on the basis of financial considerations," he
added.


The five-company Nabucco consortium involving BOTAS plans to
build a 3,300-kilometre (2,000-mile) pipeline that will carry
natural gas from the Middle East and Central Asia to the European
Union via Turkey and the Balkans, bypassing Russia.


The other partners are Austria's oil and gas group OMV, Hungary's
MOL, Bulgaria's Bulgargaz and Romania's Transgaz.


The consortium is seeking a sixth partner in the six-billion-
dollar (4.5 -billion-euro) project, expected to become
operational in 2012.


The other partners reportedly approved GDF's participation, but
BOTAS has opposed it because of the French draft law on the
Armenian massacres.


The bill was adopted by the National Assembly in Paris in October
but must still go before the upper-house Senate, then back to the
lower house before becoming law.


Turkey had at the time threatened unspecified measures against
the bill, which followed a 2001 resolution by the French
parliament recognising the killings as genocide.


In November, the Turkish army froze bilateral military ties with
France over the bill.


The foreign ministry official said "there is no problem in what
has been scheduled in the political and diplomatic field between
Turkey and France."


Senior Turkish and French diplomats will meet for consultations
in the coming weeks, he said, adding that it is up to the army to
revise its own decision on military relations.


Armenians say up to 1.5 million of their kin perished in
orchestrated killings between 1915 and 1917 in the final years of
the Ottoman Empire.


Turkey categorically rejects the genocide label and says
thousands of Turks and Armenians were killed in civil strife when
Armenians took up arms for independence in eastern Anatolia and
sided with Russian troops invading the crumbling empire.

