

Myanmar's military government has privatised more than 200 state-
owned enterprises since the junta began opening up the economy a
decade ago, a senior official said Friday.


"Altogether 215 state-owned enterprises, of the 288 proposed by
10 ministries, were privatised," a senior official of the
national planning ministry told AFP on condition of anonymity.


About another 65 enterprises are set to be sold and new proposals
are still coming to the privatisation commission, he added.


All of the state firms were sold to Myanmar nationals, the
official said.


"Under our policy, we will not sell to foreigners. Our government
wants the local private sector to benefit. That's why we
privatised the enterprises."


Of those already sold, 124 belonged to the information ministry
-- many of them cinemas around the country while another 25 firms
had been owned by the commerce ministry, the official added.


Official media reported Friday that six state-owned rice mills in
the Sagaing Division of central Myanmar would be privatised.


According to official figures, nearly 80,600 factories were
operating around the country in 2005.


When Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, became independent in
1948, it had one of the most promising economies in southeast
Asia.


Decades of mismanagement under former dictator Ne Win drove the
economy into the ground as he pursued a so-called "Burmese Way to
Socialism" that included extreme isolationism that severed almost
all contact with the outside world.


When the current junta took power after crushing a pro-democracy
uprising in 1988, they began moving ever so slowly to open up the
economy to private and foreign investment.


The privatisation scheme began taking off in the mid-1990s but
the government rarely releases any official data about the
programme.


The government's tepid efforts at economic reform have been
hampered by sanctions imposed by the United States and Europe
over the detention of pro- democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi and
other rights abuses.


But in recent years, keen interest from other Asian countries --
especially in Myanmar's energy resources -- have thrown the junta
an economic lifeline.


Thailand last year became the biggest foreign investor in
Myanmar, with a six billion dollar dam project on the Salween
River, which will provide electricity for Thailand.


That single project represented nearly half of all foreign
investment in Myanmar since 1989, according to statistics from
the national planning ministry.


Total investment since the junta began opening the economy in
1989 totaled just 14.2 billion dollars, ministry data showed.


Last year, the official statistics also said that Myanmar had a
1.4 billion dollar trade surplus, with exports at 3.5 billion
dollars and imports at almost two billion dollars.


The ministry put inflation last year at 10.7 percent, up from 3.8
percent the year before.


However, official statistics from Myanmar are notoriously
unreliable and do not take into account the nation's vast black
market, which outside economists estimate is at least half the
size of the formal economy.


Foreign economists also estimate that inflation is three times as
high as official figures indicate.

