

Cambodian judges on the beleaguered Khmer Rouge tribunal urged
their international counterparts Friday to hold a key meeting
later this month in the latest effort to prevent the collapse of
the genocide trials.


International jurists said Tuesday that they would not hold a
plenary of judges set for April 30 because of an ongoing dispute
over whether foreign defence lawyers should pay fees to appear at
the tribunal.


"The international judges' decision not to participate in the
plenary session planned at the end this month would further delay
the process of the court," the Cambodian judges said in a
statement.


The Cambodian Bar Association is demanding that foreign defence
lawyers pay 4,900 dollars in fees -- an amount that critics say
would discourage many from seeking clients and deprive defendants
of their rights to counsel.


Foreign and Cambodian judges were supposed to meet later this
month to approve the internal rules that will govern the day-to-
day work of the tribunal.


The meeting's delay will further postpone the start of the trials
for ageing Khmer Rouge leaders accused in one of the worst
genocides of the 20th century.


The Cambodian judges said that they "hope that the international
judges will reconsider their decision and participate in the
planned plenary session."


They added the tribunal had no mandate to consider the issue of
fees to the Bar and that the dispute should not delay the trials.


Foreign judges said Tuesday that they would give the Bar until
the end of the month to reconsider the fees, at which time they
would propose arranging for foreign lawyers to defend clients
without the Bar's help.


The tribunal's unique format, agreed to after protracted
negotiations between the United Nations and Cambodia, places both
Cambodian and international judges on the bench.


Chronic delays since the tribunal opened in July have raised
fears among rights groups and legal advocates that the Khmer
Rouge leaders will die before being brought to justice for the
1970s genocide.


Up to two million people died of overwork, starvation and
execution under the Khmer Rouge, which abolished religion,
property rights, currency and schools.


Millions more were driven from the cities onto vast collective
farms as the ultra-Maoist regime sought to create an agrarian
utopia.

