

Arctic ice will extensively disappear and some far-northern lands
will lose much of their permafrost this century, while the
situation for Antarctica is largely unclear, UN experts said on
Friday.


The assessment is spelt out in a report on the impacts of global
warming by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).


The document, issued in Brussels, says the magnitude of climate-
change effects will vary according to the the size of the world's
population, energy use and the level of greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere, which determines the rise in global temperature.


"The polar regions are increasingly recognised as being a) geo-
politically and economically important, b) extremely vulnerable
to current and projected climate change, and c) the regions with
the greatest potential to affect global climate and thus human
populations and biodiversity," it said.


"(...) However, the complexity of response in biological and
human systems, and the fact that these systems are subject to
multiple stressors, means that future impacts remain very
difficult to predict."


Here are the report's key findings for the polar regions:


ARCTIC


-- By 2100, the extent of Arctic sea ice could shrink by 22-33
percent, depending on the emissions scenario. Arctic glaciers,
ice caps and the Greenland icesheet will suffer "important
reductions" in thickness and range, but this magnitude is
difficult to predict.


-- Northern hemisphere permafrost is projected to decrease in
extent by 20-35 percent by 2050. Seasonal thawing is likely to
increase by 15-25 percent by this date. The runoff from this thaw
will disrupt local ecosystems.


-- According to a commonly used computer model, 10 percent of
Arctic tundra will be replaced by forest, and 15-25 percent of
polar desert will be replaced by tundra.


-- Ice melt will lead to habitat loss for migratory birds and
mammals, with "major implications" for polar bears and seals, as
well as for native Inuit, who traditionally hunt for their food.


-- Climate change will have a major impact on the Arctic's four
million people. The limits for agriculture and foresty could
shift northwards by several hundred kilometers (a couple of
hundred miles). "This will benefit some communities and
disadvantage others."


-- Arctic warming will reduce mortality from respiratory deaths
and injuries, but at the same increase vulnerability to insects
and ticks that bring diseases.


ANTARCTICA


-- Land ice loss from the Antarctic peninsula, which has had one
of the highest observed increases in temperature anywhere in the
world, will continue.


-- Projections for summer sea ice range from a slight increase to
a near complete loss of summer sea ice.


-- Uncertainty surrounds the situation of Antarctic icesheet,
where most of the world's freshwater is locked up. There is
evidence of deglaciation on the Western Antarctic icesheet, but
some experts suggest this could be a lingering result of the last
Ice Age, some 12,000 years ago, rather than recent man-made
global warming. As for the East Antarctic icesheet, some data say
it is unchanged, others say it is in fact thickening.


(Document: Working Group II contribution to the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change, Fourth Assessment Report).

