

Bangladesh cricket chiefs will convene an emergency meeting next
week to discuss Dav Whatmore's future after he joined the race to
succeed Greg Chappell as new coach of India, an official said.


"We've convened an emergency meeting of the board on April 10
when we will discuss the Dav Whatmore issue," Bangladesh Cricket
Board (BCB) general secretary Mahbub Anam said.


"We have read some of his interviews in the media. Before the
meeting, we will talk to him about these interviews and reports.
And then we will discuss all the issues in the meeting," he
added.


Whatmore has emerged among the frontrunners to succeed fellow
Australian Greg Chappell as coach of India, one of the hottest
and toughest jobs in cricket.


"I'm definitely interested," Whatmore told Thursday's Times of
India. Whatmore's contract with Bangladesh expires after the
World Cup.


Chappell quit his job following India's disastrous World Cup.


Whatmore, who coached Sri Lanka to World Cup victory in 1996, has
earned respect in Bangladesh after his young team pulled off a
string of victories against some of the world's top teams,
including a memorable defeat of India in the Caribbean.


As a result, the team won a place in the second round of the
ongoing World Cup, which triggered celebrations all over the
cricket-mad south Asian country.


"It was a tremendous performance. We set the goal of winning a
place in the Super Eight and we have just won that. Definitely it
was a great performance by the team and the coach," Anam said.


Anam, a leading businessman, played a key role in persuading
Whatmore to take over Bangladesh in 2003.


"We had to chase him for months. Under him the team has grown. We
are no longer the same old team," he said, adding Whatmore made
"similar noises" when India picked up Chappell as its coach two
years back.


At that time, the local media reported that the BCB doubled
Whatmore's salary and added more perks to keep him in Bangladesh.


This time, however, some board officials have openly criticised
Whatmore for joining the race for Indian coach midway through the
Caribbean World Cup.


"Whatmore must be held accountable for his statements," cricket
board chief executive officer Mahmudur Rahman was quoted as
saying by the Bengali newspaper Inquilab.


The daily Jaijaidin, in a front page commentary, called
Whatmore's comments "irresponsible" and said they would hit the
morale of the team.


Chappell, the former Australian captain, sent an e-mail to the
Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Wednesday, saying
he did not want to seek an extension due to "family and personal"
reasons.


West Indian legend Vivian Richards has already offered to help
India's cricketers in the aftermath of the World Cup.


News reports have also put Australia quiet man Tom Moody,
currently working with Sri Lanka, at the top of the list of
candidates alongside Indian stalwarts Sunil Gavaskar and Mohinder
Amarnath.


India must find Chappell's replacement quickly since they are due
to tour Bangladesh in May for two Tests and three one-day
internationals.


India, one of the pre-tournament favourites, were upset by
Bangladesh in the first match and also lost to Sri Lanka to post
their worst World Cup performance since 1979.

