

Global warming will power up tropical storms and heatwaves in
North America and threaten species extinction and hunger in the
South, UN experts said on Friday.


Common to each American hemisphere will be a greater burden from
water stress and -- unless governments prepare -- rising
temperatures are likely to cause "heat-related mortality,
pollution, storm-related fatalities and infectious disease," the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warned.


Its estimates for the 21st century are spelled out in a major
report unveiled in Brussels.


The document says the magnitude of climate-change effects will
vary according to the the size of the world's population, energy
use and the level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which
determines the rise in global temperature.


Here are the major findings for the Americas:


NORTH AMERICA


-- Thawing of permafrost and loss of sea ice set to accelerate,
posing a threat to mammals such as seals and polar bears,
encouraging invasive species and "severely" challenging the
lifestyle of the native Inuit.


-- Fast-growing cities on the coast will be increasingly
vulnerable to storms, which will be amplified by sea-level rise.
"Current adaptation is uneven and readiness for increased
exposure is poor," the report warns.


-- Severe heatwaves are likely to intensify in magnitude and
duration over parts of the US and Canada, threatening the urban
elderly in particular.


-- In the first decades of the 21st century, climate change will
boost forest production and rain-fed agriculture. But this will
be partly balanced by a greater range of insect pests and
diseases.


-- The western United States will be hit by problems of water
stress, driven by large decreases in snowpack, earlier snowmelt
and changes in rainfall patterns.


LATIN AMERICA


-- Tropical glaciers are "very likely" to disappear over the next
15 years, reducing water availability and hydropower generation
in several countries.


-- Frequency and intensity of hurricanes in the Caribbean basin
is likely to increase.


-- By the 2020s, between seven and 77 million are likely to
suffer from inadequate water supplies, a figure that could rise
to 60-150 million by 2100.


-- According to a widely-used computer model, the additional
number of people at risk from hunger could reach five, 26 and 85
million in 2020, 2050 and 2080 respectively.


-- An increase of 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) and
decreases in soil water would turn eastern Amazonia and the
tropical forests of central and southern Mexico into savannah,
raising the threat of extinction to many species.


-- Sea-level rise and ocean warming would very probably affect
fish stocks in the Southeast Pacific (off Peru and Chile), coral
reefs of Mexico, Belize and Panama and mangroves in Brazil,
Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela.


(Document: Working Group II contribution to the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change, Fourth Assessment Report).

