

Pope Benedict XVI will lead Catholics in the most sombre day of
the Christian calendar on Good Friday in commemorating the
crucifixion of Christ in a procession in Rome's Colosseum.


Thousands of pilgrims are expected to attend the torchlit
Stations of the Cross ceremony in the ancient Roman arena, with
the 79-year-old pontiff leading the first and last portions.


Other stations will be performed by youths from the Republic of
Congo, Chili, South Korea, China and Angola; a family from the
Rome diocese and two Franciscan monks.


Italian Bible scholar Monsignor Gianfranco Ravasi of Milan was
given the responsibility this year of penning meditations to be
read out during the procession.


His reflections during the Ninth Station, when Jesus meets the
women of Jerusalem, will focus on the plight of women through
history.


In an advance text released by the Vatican, it recalls that Jesus
was "surrounded by a world of mothers, daughters and sisters".


It mentions women "who have been abused and raped, ostracised and
submitted to shameful tribal practices," as well as "Jewish and
Palestinian mothers, and those from all countries at war, widows
and the elderly forgotten by their children".


Despite the feminine theme, notably absent from this year's
observance will be Veronica, a figure from Christian legend who
offered Jesus a cloth with which to wipe his face.


Ravasi has selected an alternative Way of the Cross first
introduced by Benedict's predecessor John Paul II in 1991 that
does not refer to Veronica and that includes references to Judas
and Pontius Pilate.


John Paul II proposed the alternative, last used in 2004, to
allow deeper reflection on purely scriptural accounts of Christ's
Passion.


On Thursday, Benedict began four days of commemorations to mark
Easter week, when he presided over mass commemorating the Last
Supper and the traditional washing of the feet.


The mass was held in St John in Lateran cathedral in the heart of
Rome, of which the pope is bishop.


Also Thursday, Benedict celebrated the annual Chrismal mass in St
Peter's basilica at the Vatican, traditionally blessing the holy
oils used in sacraments throughout the year.


On Holy Saturday, the pope will preside over an Easter vigil mass
in St Peter's Basilica in which thousands of pilgrims will hold
candles and renew their baptismal vows.


On Easter Sunday, the most joyous day of the Christian year,
celebrating Christ's Resurrection, the pope will deliver the
traditional "Urbi et Orbi" Easter message from the central loggia
of St Peter's basilica.

