

Turkey has suspended talks with Gaz de France (GDF) over the
proposed acquisition by the French group of a stake in a major
gas pipeline project, but the decision is not final, a foreign
ministry official said Friday.


A press report claimed Thursday the talks had been suspended
because of a political row sparked by French pressure to label
Turkish action against Armenians during World War I as genocide.


"This is not a final decision. We understand that the negotiating
process has not yet come to an end," the diplomat told AFP on the
condition of anonymity.


"This is a commercial issue between companies and they will make
the final decision on the basis of financial considerations," he
added.


The five-company Nabucco consortium involving BOTAS plans to
build a 3,300-kilometre (2,000-mile) pipeline that will carry
natural gas from the Middle East and Central Asia to the European
Union via Turkey and the Balkans, bypassing Russia.


"Negotiations have been complicated and slowed down by the
genocide issue," confirmed another source close to the case.


The other partners in Nabucco are Austria's oil and gas group
OMV, Hungary's MOL, Bulgaria's Bulgargaz and Romania's Transgaz.


The consortium is seeking a sixth partner in the six-billion-
dollar (4.5 -billion-euro) project, expected to become
operational in 2012.


The other partners reportedly approved GDF's participation, but
BOTAS has opposed it because of a French draft law on the
Armenian massacres.


A bill was adopted by the National Assembly in Paris in October
calling for jail sentences for those who deny that Ottoman Turks
committed genocide against Armenians during World War I.


It must still go before the Senate, then back to the lower house
before becoming law.


Turkey had at the time threatened unspecified measures against
the bill, which followed a 2001 resolution by the French
parliament recognising the killings as genocide.


In November, the Turkish army froze bilateral military ties with
France over the bill.


Armenians say up to 1.5 million of their kin perished in
orchestrated killings between 1915 and 1917 under the Ottoman
Empire.


Turkey categorically rejects the genocide label and says
thousands of Turks and Armenians were killed in civil strife when
Armenians took up arms for independence in eastern Anatolia and
sided with Russian troops invading the crumbling empire.

