

The son of the late French president Francois Mitterrand and a
former interior minister are among 42 defendants who will stand
trial in an "arms-to-Angola" case, officials said Friday.


Jean-Christophe Mitterrand has been charged with bribe-taking in
connection with the sale of 790 million dollars (590 million
euros) in arms from 1993 to 2000 to the southern African country
when it was in middle of a protracted civil war that ultimately
left half a million dead.


Judge Philippe Courroye signed the indictment for the trial late
on Thursday. It also cites former Mitterrand adviser Jacques
Attali, former interior minister Charles Pasqua, thriller writer
Paul-Loup Sulitzer and member of parliament Georges Fenech as
defendants.


Dubbed "Angolagate" by the press, the long-running judicial
investigation has cast a shadow over many senior French
government officials, especially those in office during Francois
Mitterrand's two-term Socialist presidency from 1981 to 1995.


It revolves around illegal arms sales negotiated through
businessman Pierre Falcone and his associate Arcady Gaydamak, a
Russian-born billionnaire, to shore up the forces of President
Jose Eduardo Dos Santos in his war against UNITA rebels.


The pair, who are among the 42 named in the indictment, were
allegedly involved in the sale of tanks, helicopters, weapons and
ammunition, as well as six warships.


Falcone, the boss of weapons firm Brenco International, and
Gaydamak, who allegedly served as go-betweens for the arms
deliveries from eastern Europe, are facing charges of influence-
peddling and illegal arms sales.


Falcone has since 2003 enjoyed diplomatic immunity because he is
a UNESCO representative in Angola. But the French justice system
does not recognise this immunity.


Jean-Christophe Mitterrand, who was an adviser on African affairs
at the Elysee presidential palace from 1986 to 1992, is accused
of "complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement" and allegedly
took bribes worth 2.6 million dollars between 1997 and 1999.


The charges against him state that he had a "determining role" in
putting Falcone in touch with the Angolan regime.


He was in 2004 found guilty of tax fraud and sentenced to a
30-month suspended jail sentence.


Pasqua served twice as France's interior minister -- from 1986 to
1988 and again from 1993 to 1995. He is best known for pushing
through a series of anti- immigration laws.


French prosecutors last week requested that the 42 including
Mitterrand be put on trial in a 500-page summary of a case that
dates back to 2000. The trial will not begin before next year.


Angola this week celebrated five years since the end of its
three-decade long civil war, with the government hailing the era
of peace as an opportunity to tackle the oil-rich nation's deep-
rooted poverty.

