

The UN human rights chief, Louise Arbour, called on Friday on
Khartoum to fully investigate rapes and possible war crimes
carried out by Sudanese soldiers or allied Janjaweed militia in
Darfur last year.


Arbour also called on Minni Arkoy Minnawi, the head of the former
rebel Sudan Liberation Army (SLA) which signed a peace deal with
Khartoum last year, to disclose the fate of 19 men who
disappeared and were reportedly tortured or killed after they
were arrested by his forces last September.


Minnawi, the SLA chief, is also chairman of the Transitional
Darfur Regional Authority established following the signing of a
fragile peace agreement with Khartoum.


The High Commissioner for Human Rights was "seriously concerned"
that the widespread sexual assaults in the eastern Jebel Marra
area were war crimes, systematically used as a "weapon of war" to
terrorise the local population, her office said in a statement.


In one report, Arbour's monitors in Sudan documented at least 15
cases of sexual assault including rapes in December 2006 during
attacks on Deribat and eight other villages which supported the
Darfur rebels.


The victims were as young as 13 years old and at least two
pregnant women were targeted in the violence, it added. Some were
raped on the spot while other were taken away, raped, and then
released.


"The attackers wore military uniforms and were described by the
victims as soldiers," the UN statement said.


Arbour called for "an impartial, timely, and transparent
investigation" by Khartoum into the attacks.


"The investigation should aim to collect evidence to identify and
prosecute those who planned, orchestrated, and/or conducted the
attacks," she said.


"The results of the investigation should be made public, legal
action should be taken against those found to be responsible and
the victims of the attacks should be compensated," Arbour added.


In the other case involving the SLA, the UN human rights office
said that 19 men from the Massalit minority were arrested by the
group in Gereida in South Darfur on September 29, 2006 following
an attack on an SLA base.


At least eight of them were reportedly found dead aftre being
exhumed several months later. The UN also said it had "credible
reports" that some were tortured in the presence of SLA leaders.


"The Human Rights Unit of the UN Mission in Sudan (UNMIS) should
be provided access to all the detainees," Arbour said.


"If the captured persons are dead, there must be an independent,
transparent, and timely inquiry to identify those responsible and
hold them accountable for crimes that may have been committed",
she added


The United Nations said it had received no response to a previous
formal request to Minnawi.


A report by a UN Human Rights Council mission in February accused
Sudan of orchestrating war crimes in Darfur. Khartoum said the
report was biased.


Fighting between rebels and government forces or allied militia
in the western Sudanese region since 2003 has led to some 200,000
deaths, while a further two million forced to flee their homes,
the United Nations says.

