

Ethiopian troop reinforcements headed to the Somali capital on
Friday, after flying into a nearby town, local residents told
AFP, five days after a shaky ceasefire took hold in Mogadishu.


Residents of Baidoa, 250 kilometres (150 miles) northwest of
Mogadishu, said two Ethiopian troop-carrying planes landed on
Thursday and left for Mogadishu overnight.


Mohamed Aden Abdi, who lives near Baidoa airport, described
seeing "two huge military planes" carrying "a lot" of Ethiopian
soldiers.


"Then I saw nine military vehicles in the street, going towards
Mogadishu," he said.


Another resident, Abdullahi Isak, said he saw five vehicles
carrying dozens of soldiers heading in the same direction.


Ethiopia denied any fresh deployment.


"This is not true. There are no additional troops to Somalia," a
spokesman from the Ethiopian information ministry, Zemedkum
Tekle, told AFP by telephone from Addis Ababa.


"It is getting calmer and calmer and there is no need to do that.
We have pulled out almost two-thirds of our troops from Somalia
and there is no need for further deployments."


On Monday Mogadishu residents said hundreds of Ethiopian forces
had entered the city. Ethiopia said it was strengthening its
positions, but only with existing troops.


Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
Islamist fighters with alleged links to the Al-Qaeda network out
of south and central Somalia some three months ago.


Fighting has increased between the two sides since the start of
the year, and an Ethiopian offensive against insurgents more than
a week ago triggered four days of the worst fighting in Mogadishu
in more than 15 years.


Hundreds of people were killed and tens of thousands forced to
flee.


Brief exchanges of weapons fire and shelling could be heard early
Friday near Mogadishu's soccer stadium, where rival sides have
been facing off since Sunday.


Most residents have fled the area, and the nearby Al Kamin
neighbourhood, while the rest of the city has remained calm since
Monday.


Elders from the city's dominant Hawiye clan said they were due to
meet with Ethiopian commanders Friday, after reaching a tentative
ceasefire deal with them on Sunday, which Ethiopia has not
confirmed.


Meanwhile, many expressed fears of a growing humanitarian crisis
as those who have fled the fighting struggled to obtain basic
food and shelter.


The United Nations estimates that more than 100,000 people, or
one tenth of the population, have fled escalating fighting in
Mogadishu since February.


"There are concerns that thousands of residents and displaced
people outside the town are without vital humanitarian aid,
including water, food, and shelter," New York-based Human Rights
Watch said in a statement Friday.


African Union peacekeeping troops, part of a force of 1,500
Ugandans, delivered water to some 20,000 displaced people in a
makeshift refugee camp south of the city on Thursday.


Captain Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for the Ugandans, called for
help in distributing aid so that the troops could carry out their
peacekeeping duties.


"It will continue as long as our resources are available, but
we're calling on the humanitarian groups to come in because we
cannot continue this forever. We can only provide security to
these people," he told AFP by telephone.

