

Saudi police on Friday shot dead a suspect wanted over the
February killing of four Frenchmen in the kingdom, the interior
ministry said.


The man was killed in a gunbattle in the Muslim holy city of
Medina in which a policeman also died.


The official news agency SPA quoted a ministry source as saying
"this person implicated in the foul crime perpetrated against the
four French citizens ... had been hunted by the security services
and is called Walid Motlaq al-Raddadi."


Raddadi was tracked down to a residential area north of Medina.


"When the security forces arrived and began to evacuate residents
they came under intense fire from a machinegun and grenades," SPA
quoted the source as saying.


A subsequent exchange of fire resulted in the deaths of Raddadi
and one member of the security forces, two more of whom were
lightly wounded, he added.


Raddadi, a 23-year-old Saudi, figured on a 36-strong list of
most-wanted suspected Al-Qaeda militants issued by the interior
ministry in June 2005, 21 of whom it said at the time were out of
the country.


Only 16 on the list remain at large. The rest have been either
killed or arrested or have surrendered to Saudi authorities. Two
were reported held in Iraqi Kurdistan.


The ministry said on March 6 that security forces had arrested a
number of suspects in the Frenchmen's killing and were hunting
two more -- other than Raddadi -- linked to the murders.


The four victims were in a party of nine French people from three
families living in Riyadh, the capital. On February 26 they were
on an outing to Madain Saleh in northwest Saudi Arabia, a popular
destination among expatriates.


Three adults and a teenager were killed when two people opened
fire on them with machineguns after they lost their way 90
kilometres (55 miles) from Medina.


No claim of responsibility was ever made for the attack.


The February attack was the first in three months against
Westerners in Saudi Arabia. The oil-rich kingdom was rocked by a
spate of bombings and shootings blamed on suspected Al-Qaeda
militants that started in May 2003, triggering a relentless
security crackdown on Islamist extremists.


The interior ministry has since warned Western governments of the
danger of further attacks on foreigners, and the British and US
embassies joined the French in issuing warnings to their
nationals.

