

The Auckland Blues juggernaut rolled over the Central Cheetahs
26-8 here Friday as flashes of backline brilliance ensured their
position at the top of the Super 14 rugby competition.


Their three try to one victory gives the Blues eight wins from
nine matches as they bury their reputation of recent seasons as a
team with talent to burn but flaky execution.


But they would have been frustrated to miss a bonus point as they
seemed destined to romp away after racing to a 26-3 lead in the
49th minute with a brilliant end-to-end try.


The Cheetahs defence was always dogged and they held off the
Blues for the rest of the increasingly mistake-ridden match.


The South Africans added some respectability with a consolation
try right on full-time as backs helped push a rolling maul over
the try line for replacement forward Ryhno van der Merwe to force
the ball down.


Winger Anthony Tuitavake and outside centre Isaia Toeva shone in
the Blues backline, both taking starring roles in the Blues
tries.


Both packs bore the scars of an uncompromising and increasingly
even struggle up front with returning All Black lock Ali Williams
appearing back to his belligerent best.


The Blues were hot on attack right from the kick-off and were
rewarded after just four minutes when in-form Toeava broke two
tackles to streak down the left flank and put halfback Steve
Devine in for the try.


Doug Howlett -- already the record holding try scorer in Super
rugby with 58 touchdowns -- was hungry for a 59th in his 100th
Super match.


He was denied midway through the spell when referee Paul Marks
disallowed his try after Tuitavake was judged to have thrown the
final pass forward.


But in a virtual replay after 37 minutes, Tuitavake made no
mistake to put Howlett in the corner in a move started by flyhalf
Isa Nacewa, who tallied three penalties and a conversion.


Opposing flyhalf Herkie Kruger kicked a penalty for the Cheetahs'
only points in the first spell, as the Blues went into the break
with a 16-3 lead.


Auckland looked likely to race away with the match with an early
second half penalty and a brilliant try finished by Tuitavake.


The home crowd were on their feet after Auckland picked up the
ball from a messy lineout well inside their 22 and Toeava broke
up field.


Following some deft linking work by flanker Daniel Braid,
Tuitavake took the final pass and rocketed down the touchline to
go over with his free arm stretched out in triumph.

