

Honda drivers Briton Jenson Button and Brazilian Rubens
Barrichello joined forces on Friday to urge struggling Honda to
make dramatic changes to their car in a bid to rescue their
season.


After only one race, the famous Japanese team is in dire straits
- struggling for speed and performance on the track and divided
by opinion and arguments off it in the garage and team
headquarters.


After finishing 21st in practice on Friday, veteran former winner
Barrichello said he was "extremely frustrated" at the situation
and Button, winner of one race last year, said the team needed
"big changes."


"It's simply the case that we have had a very bad day," said
Barrichello.


"To end the day where I am, is obviously extremely frustrating.
We were not able to improve the braking stability issues that we
have.


"So, all I can say is that we need to look at what we have
learned today and try to find a solution that can get us back to
where we were during the test last week."


Button could set only the 15th fastest time, a forlorn
performance from a man once touted as a potential race winner and
future drivers' world champion.   He blamed the RA107 car
squarely and said it was difficult to drive.


"Well, it was a tough day really trying to find a balance,"
Button said. "Initially the circuit was very dusty, but as the
track improved through the day we were able to work on the car
more.


"The fact remains however that we are still a long way from where
we want to be."


He added: "We are expecting some big steps forward this year and
there are some big changes being made, which we need.


"There is no point in making small steps forward and finding a
couple of hundredths. We need big changes. That is what we are
working on."


But Button said he is convinced that the team must keep working
together through the crisis they face rather than undergo another
massive staff upheaval.


"There is no use firing people just to show the outside world
that you are doing something about it," said Button. "That is not
going to help at all."

