

Half the candidates in East Timor's presidential poll said Friday
they fear many attempts have been made to manipulate the election
process ahead of Monday's vote.


"We fear that there are a lot of attempts to manipulate the whole
election process," the candidates said in a joint statement.


"There's been a lot of intimidation, a lot of violence, and a lot
of threats. We fear that violence can occur on the day of the
vote," they said.


At least 32 people have already been injured in clashes this week
in and around the capital Dili, although most of the two-week
presidential campaign has been peaceful, the UN has said.


The candidates' statement was read at a press conference by Joao
Viegas Carrascalao, one of eight people seeking to replace
President Xanana Gusmao in the election, the first since troubled
East Timor's independence in 2002.


Joining Carrascalao was Fernando "Lasama" de Araujo, chairman of
the opposition Democratic Party, who is a strong contender to win
the election. Two other candidates, Lucia Lobato and Fransisco
Xavier do Amaral, were also present.


"We ask the UN to guarantee security and to be aware of all these
attempts of manipulation," Carrascalao said.


"We have in many cases made complaints to the proper authorities
and so far we haven't seen any measures taken."


Carrascalao said the four candidates received identity cards for
their own election observers only on Friday, leaving them
insufficient time to prepare to oversee the election.


They alleged the ruling Fretilin party got its identity cards
some time ago from a government department, the Timorese
Technical Secretariat for Election Administration (STAE), which
is organising the election.


"The timing is premeditated," Carrascalao told AFP. "It's a
government department and we fear that the government is
manipulating through this department."


Faustino Cardoso, the president of the Nation Election
Commission, said he was aware of the identity card problem.


"We have been in contact with STAE. Most of the cards have been
finalised. I strongly believe that everything is going to be
ready for the election on Monday," he said.


The UN said 2,000 East Timorese and 232 foreign observers would
monitor the ballot.


Two other presidential candidates, both considered possible
winners of the election, did not join Friday's press conference.


But Prime Minister Jose Ramos-Horta and Francisco "Lu-Olo"
Guterres's Fretilin party separately accused a priest who sits on
the National Election Commission of interference.


The accusation was levelled against Father Martinho Gusmao, the
Catholic church's commission representative and spokesperson.


Filomeno Aleixo, of Fretilin's central committee, said Martinho
Gusmao "clearly prejudiced the outcome of Monday's ballot" by
voicing support for de Araujo's candidacy.


Ramos-Horta said the church hierarchy was "equally shocked" by
Martinho Gusmao's action, which he said was inconsistent with his
role on the electoral commission.


But when contacted by AFP the priest said "it's not for the
Catholic church to dictate" who people should vote for.


"Officially, as an institution, we say all candidates are
Catholic and we have no preference," he said.


Aleixo, whose party led East Timor's independence struggle, said
the electoral commission is supposed to act as an independent
body that helps ensure free and fair elections.


Indonesia occupied East Timor for 24 years before the former
Portuguese colony gained independence after a period of UN
stewardship.


Violence has pulsed through the fledgling state. Last year at
least 37 people were killed and more than 150,000 fled their
homes in unrest that triggered the dispatch of Australian-led
international peacekeepers.

