

Senior world figures and conservation groups urged an immediate
global response to a damning UN climate report unveiled Friday
which predicts a catastrophic future for the planet.


The report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) -- the UN's top authority on the subject -- said that up
to 30 percent of animal and plant species could die out if global
temperatures rise just a few degrees.


UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon noted the report's findings
"with concern," his spokesman said in a statement.


"Adequate, large-scale adaptation measures have the potential to
alleviate some of the worst consequences outlined in the report,
if governments take action without delay," the spokesman said.


The report said the world's have-nots would be worst hit by the
climate change, especially if global temperatures rose by 1.5-2.5
C (2.7 F to 4.5 F).


It predicted that greenhouse gases would change rainfall
patterns, intensify tropical storms, accelerate the melting of
Arctic ice and mountain glaciers, and amplify the risk of
drought, flooding and water stress.


The United States, a major greenhouse gas producer, acknowledged
the "global challenge" the problem posed.


"The key message there, I think, is that these projected impacts
are expected to get more pronounced at higher temperatures," said
Sharon Hays, head of the US delegation at the IPCC.


"This is a glimpse into an apocalyptic future," said Greenpeace
International campaigner Stephanie Tunmore. "The earth will be
transformed by human induced climate change, unless action is
taken soon and fast."


The director of the World Wildlife Fund's global climate change
programme, Hans Verolme, said the urgency of this report should
be matched with an "equally urgent" response by governments.


"Poor countries that bear the least responsibility will suffer
most -- and they have no money to respond," Verolme said.


The Friends of the Earth appealed to rich nations to cut
emissions.


"Unless we take action... far worse is yet to come, condemning
millions in the poorest parts of the world to loss of lives,
livelihoods and homes," said Catherine Pearce, the group's
climate campaigner.


"It is a looming humanitarian catastrophe, ultimately threatening
our global security and survival," she said.


The European Commission, meanwhile, seized on the report as
evidence that the European Union's policy for tackling climate
change is the right one.


EU leaders agreed tough targets last month for reducing carbon
emissions, with the aim of limiting the rise in temperature to
below two degrees Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels.


"The report shows many of the serious impacts that would occur if
global warming exceeded the EU's target of not more than two
degrees Celsius above the pre- industrial level," Environment
Commissioner Stavros Dimas said.


"The world needs to act fast if we are to succeed in stabilising
climate change and thereby prevent its worst impacts," he said.


The deputy chairman of the European Parliament's environment
committee, Satu Hassi, urged developed countries to set aside
their climate policy differences before it is too late.


"Instead of squabbling over who is doing the least to combat
change, developed countries within the EU and elsewhere should be
forging ahead with efforts to prevent a potential climate
catastrophe," he said.


Hassi urged German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who brokered last
month's climate change accord, to use an upcoming Group of Eight
summit to get the major industrialised powers on board.


Merkel said she would raise the issue with leaders of the club of
wealthy nations at the June summit in Heiligendamm, Germany.


"This report confirms that climate change is a fact," Merkel
said.


"We therefore need to act rapidly and decisively to bring down
the rate at which temperatures are increasing worldwide and to
curb the levels of carbon dioxide emissions," she added

