

When British medical student Liam Piggott started his working
holiday in the Solomon Islands, he expected plenty of free time
for snorkelling, fishing and surfing.


Instead, the 23-year-old student doctor has been holed up in a
makeshift medical centre treating victims of this week's tsunami
that devastated the South Pacific nation.


Under a rain-lashed tarpaulin on the hard-hit western island of
Gizo, the English doctor has also delivered a baby, his first
without supervision.


"We didn't have any of the equipment that would normally be
available in England," Piggott said on Friday of the delivery,
one of five since the medical camp was hastily erected after the
tsunami.


"We'd have an obstetrician (in England) on standby at all times
in case anything went wrong but obviously there was none of that
here, it was just me."


The new mother, Francis Biran, has named her healthy baby boy
Liam, after the medical student from Brighton.


Piggott was just four days into a five-week trip to the Solomons
when a powerful earthquake and resulting tsunami hit remote Gizo
where he was staying.


With the local hospital damaged by the giant wave and threatening
to collapse, Piggott and other staff evacuated patients to higher
ground and quickly established the medical camp by a roadside.


He said people had been arriving ever since with broken bones,
lacerations and head injuries from the disaster, which has so far
claimed at least 34 lives and displaced another 5,500.


One young boy arrived badly burned after the shaking earth
toppled a kettle onto him.


The camp is also the only place where Gizo's homeless, now
crowded into refugee camps, can seek treatment for diarrhea and
other illnesses.


But amid the tragedy, there has also been joy. Piggott and local
midwives known as "mommas" delivered little Liam, weighing three
kilograms (6.6 pounds), on Tuesday, one day after the disaster.


He described the experience as nerve-wracking.


"As it was, there was a minor complication but if anything major
had gone wrong it would have been really scary," said Piggott,
who has previously delivered 10 babies under close supervision as
part of his training at London St George's Hospital.


He tells the story as another woman in is labour nearby in the
camp's "maternity ward" -- four timber poles with a tarpaulin
roof and sheets draped down the sides that offer some privacy.


The mother gives birth a short time later, something local doctor
Kenton Sade said he found heartening in the wake of the disaster.


"It shows life goes on," he said. "It is indicative, perhaps, of
a new beginning for everything after what has happened to us."

