

The US stock market posted healthy gains in the past week and
market participants are voicing optimism following a stronger-
than-anticipated report on the job market.


The week ahead marks the kick off of the first quarter corporate
earnings season for major US companies.


Friday's report from the Labor Department showing that a robust
180,000 new jobs were created in March, against forecasts that
had expected just 135,000 new posts, should support the market
when trading resumes Monday, said Dick Green, a president at
Briefing.com.


"This should ease concerns that weakness in the housing and
manufacturing sectors will slow down consumer spending
significantly," Green said.


The stock market was closed Friday in observance of Good Friday.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average of 30 blue chips rose 1.67
percent in the week to close Thursday at 12,560.20.


The broad-market Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1.61
percent to 1,443.76 while the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite rose a
stronger 2.05 percent to 2,471.34.


Analysts said the release of the minutes from the Federal
Reserve's last interest rate meeting will likely generate keen
interest in the week ahead.


The Fed opted to leave its key federal funds interest rate
anchored at 5.25 percent on March 21st, and backed off from a
reference to "firming" or hiking rates amid a slowing down of the
world's biggest economy.


The Fed's March statement fueled hopes of a rate cut sometime
soon, but analysts were divided on the significance of the
central bank's shift and say they will be keen to pour over the
minutes which are due to be released Wednesday.


"We'll see exactly what they meant by their statement," said Art
Hogan, a market analyst at Jefferies.


Other market observers said investors are keeping their spirits
up ahead of the looming earnings season.


Michael Malone, an analyst at Cowen & Co., said: "Investors
are getting more comfortable with the general economic outlook.
Investors are growing less concerned with regards to the subprime
(mortgage) issue."


Frederic Dickson, a chief market strategist at D.A. Davidson
& Co., said investor sentiment would likely remain upbeat in
the coming week.


"The current market environment should produce modest market
gains unless the upcoming earnings season produces some very
nasty surprises," he said.


Al Goldman, a chief market strategist at A.G. Edwards, said
corporate America's earnings growth is likely to remain robust.


"We project a seven-to-eight percent increase in earnings by the
S&P 500 for 2007," Goldman said.


"It is important to remember that this economic slowdown was
engineered by the Fed and is designed to keep the economy from
boiling over and creating rampant inflation," Goldman added.


Friday's employment numbers helped underpin sentiment as job
growth swelled and the nation's unemployment rate ticked down a
notch to 4.4 percent, marking its lowest level since May 2001.


Recent job data have been relatively solid despite the economic
slowdown and fears about America's cooling housing market.


Aside from the Fed minutes, the week ahead will be relatively
light data-wise, but it will yield fresh snapshots on inflation,
export and import prices, and the US trade balance as well as
several smaller releases.


Traders said that any dip in crude oil prices could also help
stocks in coming days.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in May, lost 10 cents to close at 64.28 dollars a barrel
Thursday.


Oil prices have eased somewhat following Iran's release of 15
British sailors and marines Wednesday following their detention
in the Gulf almost two weeks ago.


Bond prices fell in the past week.


The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.674 percent from
4.648 percent on March 30 while the 30-year bond yield climbed to
4.868 percent against 4.848 percent. Bond yields and prices move
in opposite directions.

