

Following are the main quotes from the statement and news
conference given Friday by 15 British naval personnel who had
been held for 13 days in Iran.


-- "Let me make it absolutely clear, irrespective of what has
been said in the past, when we were detained by the IRG (Iranian
Revolutionary Guard) we were inside internationally recognised
Iraqi territorial waters and I can clearly state we were 1.7
nautical miles from Iranian waters."


Royal Navy Lieutenant Felix Carman


-- "From the outset it was very apparent that fighting back was
simply not an option. Had we chosen to do so then many of us
would not be standing here today. Of that I have no doubts."


Royal Marine Captain Chris Air


-- "The Iranian Navy did not turn up lightly armed; they came
with intent, heavy weapons, and very quickly surrounded us.... We
were not prepared to fight a heavily armed force who, it is our
impression, came out deliberately into Iraqi waters to take us
prisoner.


"Reasoning with the Iranians was our only option. We tried. We
did our utmost to de-escalate the situation, but our words fell
on deaf ears. They had come with a clear purpose and were never
going to leave without us."


Cpt Chris Air


-- "We were completely surrounded, and in addition to the loss of
life, any attempt to fight back would have caused a major
international incident and an escalation of tension within the
region.


"Our team had seconds to make a decision and we believe that we
made the right decision. We still believe this was the right
thing to do."


Cpt Chris Air


-- "The Iranians are not our enemies. We are not at war with
them. Our rules of engagement at that time stated that we could
only use lethal force if we felt that we were in imminent danger
of a loss of life.


"By the time the true intent of the Iranians had become apparent
-- and we could have legitimately fought back -- it was too late
for action."


Cpt Chris Air


-- "The pressures we were subjected to were quite diverse.... It
was mainly psychological, emotional. The isolation was a major
part of this: a complete suffocation in terms of information from
the outside world.


"None of the guards spoke English, we were blindfolded at all
times and kept in isolation from each other.


"Also when we first went to prison we were put up against the
wall, hands bound, blindfolded and people were cocking weapons in
the background, which as you can imagine is an extremely nerve-
wracking occasion."


Lt Felix Carman


-- "At no time did we actually apologise for intruding into
Iranian waters. At all times we stuck to our guns and said, no,
we were conducting our operations legally, and I think some of
the underhand tactics that were used were an insult to
intelligence to be honest.


Lt Felix Carman


-- "The fact she (Leading Seaman Faye Turney) is a women has been
used as a propaganda tool by Iran. This is deeply regrettable."


Lt Felix Carman


-- "The whole thing was a complete media stunt. I'm not their
biggest fan, put it that way."


Royal Marine Joe Tindell

