

The race stewards at the Malaysian Grand Prix on Friday rejected
a protest by the Spyker team who claimed that rivals Scuderia
Toro Rosso were using 'copy- cat' designs on their car.


The stewards told Spyker that they could not rule on the legality
of the Toro Rosso STR2 car because the issues involved were
already taken into arbitration. The stewards returned Spyker's
protest fee.


The Spyker team chief Colin Kolles said he was not upset at the
decision taken by the stewards. He said he was instead glad that
they had analysed the situation so thoroughly.


Kolles told the autosport.com website that he felt "very happy
with the reaction of the stewards and the fact that they have
preserved evidence."


The Spyker team claim that some of their rivals have used the
resources of other teams in the design and creation of their cars
- a practice that if proved to be true would be a clear breach of
Formula One's strict regulations.


The teams involved are Toro Rosso and the Red Bull Racing team
and the Super Aguri F1 team and Honda Racing.


The protests both here in Sepang and at the season-opening
Australian Grand Prix demonstrated a depth of feeling about
'copy-cat' practices that has caused uproar among the teams in
the lower half of the field.


The Scuderia Toro Rosso owner Gerhard Berger said he was adamant
that the issue needed to be resolved swiftly and clearly for the
sake of the future.


He rejected suggestions that he might be open to a compromise
settlement organised by Formula One ringmaster Bernie Ecclestone.


Spyker lodged their complaint against Toro Rosso on Thursday amid
claims that the Italian team's car was designed by rivals Red
Bull.


Berger said he was not interested in any deals - including
possible pooling of television rights money between Spyker and
the two so-called 'customer' teams - and instead wanted a clear
decision.


"I think it is all about the principle," he said. "Formula One is
not something where in the end you fix something with money. You
have a regulation, interpretation, possibilities -- you stretch
everything to the limits, but it should be right or wrong."


Berger does not accept any claims that the Toro Rosso cars owe
their design, or even parts of their design, to work done by Red
Bull.


Ecclestone is reported to be attempting to settle the problems
without need for any court hearings and is said to be organising
a meeting of all the Formula One team chiefs this weekend at
Sepang.


As it stands, only the leading ten teams in the constructors'
championship are paid any television and travel money - a system
that means Spyker may miss out on several millions of dollars if
they are beaten by Super Aguri and Toro Rosso.

