

Interrogations of Saddam Hussein and seized documents confirmed
the former Iraqi regime had no links with Al-Qaeda, a Pentagon
report said Friday, contradicting the US case for the 2003
invasion.


A two-page resume of the report was published in February, but on
Friday the Pentagon declassified the whole 120-page document.


According to the inspector general of the US Defense Department,
information obtained after Saddam's fall confirmed the prewar
position of the Central Intelligence Agency and Pentagon
intelligence that the Iraqi government had had no substantial
contacts with Al-Qaeda.


This position was shored up by interrogations of Saddam, the
former Iraqi president and other top officials captured by the
US-led coalition forces in Iraq, the report said.


It contradicts a strong argument for the invasion made by the
administration of President George W. Bush that Baghdad had a
working relationship with Al-Qaeda.


The network, based in Afghanisation and led by Osama bin Laden,
was behind the September 11, 2001 attacks on the United States in
which almost 3,000 people were killed.


The report noted that the office of then-undersecretary of
defense Douglas Feith, one of the foremost advocates for invading
Iraq after the 2001 attacks, had ignored the CIA's position.


He characterized the supposed Al-Qaeda-Iraq relationship as
"mature" and "symbiotic" in a September 2002 briefing to the
chief of staff of Vice President Dick Cheney.


The Feith briefing alleged that the two cooperated in 10 areas,
including training, financing and logistics.


But the new report says the US intelligence community had
concluded at the time there were "no conclusive signs" of links
between Iraq and Al-Qaeda, and that "direct cooperation ... has
not been established" between the two.


Prior to the war there was little public dispute inside the
United States over the Bush administration's assertions linking
Iraq and bin Laden's group.


But since the invasion, a number of intelligence officials have
alleged the White House and its backers ignored their
intelligence and "cherry picked" information to support their
arguments for a war.


In a radio interview Wednesday Cheney insisted on a prewar link
between Iraq and Al-Qaeda, saying the group was working in Iraq
"before we even arrived on the scene."


"As I say, they were present before we invaded Iraq," Cheney told
conservative radio talk-show host Rush Limbaugh.

