

Iraqi and US soldiers launched a massive security crackdown
targeting militias in the central city of Diwaniyah on Friday
amid clashes that left one dead, officials said.


Security forces slapped a curfew on the city from 5 am (0100 GMT)
with only Iraqi and US troops, armoured vehicles and militiamen
visible on the streets while American helicopters circled
overhead, an AFP reporter said.


"Iraqi Army troops swept into the city in the early morning hours
April 6 to disrupt militia activity and return security and
stability here back to the government of Iraq," the US military
announced in a statement.


"Soldiers of the 8th Iraqi army division supported by soldiers
and paratroopers from multi-national division Baghdad began
Operation Black Eagle at approximately 6:30 am (0230 GMT)," it
added.


The operation came two days after Iraq said a massive crackdown
launched in Baghdad eight weeks ago was being extended to other
flashpoint areas.


"Instead of showing instability and bowing to intimidation, the
Iraqi government and its security forces have taken action and
boldly responded to the militia threat," said US Colonel Michael
Garrett.


Clashes left one person dead and 19 others wounded on Friday,
said Hamid Gaati, head of the local department of health, and a
security official.


Gaati accused US forces of preventing ambulances from
transporting the wounded to hospital, and urged humanitarian
organisations to bring casualties in for treatment.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers arrived from neighbouring towns
such as Kut, Babel and Najaf to raid gunmen's hideouts in Al-
Askari, Al-Jumhuri and Al-Iskan in the northern parts of
Diwaniyah, an Iraqi military officer said.


All entrances to Diwaniyah were sealed off until further notice
"to help us to carry out security plan Black Eagle to impose the
law," said an Iraqi security source in the city.


An official in the local office of the movement of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who controls the Mahdi Army milita,
confirmed that its fighters and US troops were clashing around
Salim Street and Al-Askari.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said, adding that top members of Sadr's movement
were to meet in the city on Saturday.


The Americans believe that Sadr, a leading opponent of US troops
in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile to escape the
Baghdad crackdown.


Sadr launched two bloody rebellions against US troops in 2004
before joining mainstream politics, but the Pentagon considers
the Mahdi Army to be the most dangerous threat to stability in
Iraq -- greater even than Al-Qaeda.


Once one of the quieter provinces in the Shiite south, Diwaniyah
has been regularly rocked by clashes between fighters and
mainstream security forces, as well as between rival militias.


Last August, nearly two dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of Shiite
militiamen were killed in such clashes.

