

Paul Nixon believes England's big match players will come good in
their make-or- break World Cup clash with reigning champions
Australia at the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium here Sunday.


England desperately need a win over their old rivals to keep
alive hopes of reaching the semi-finals after Wednesday's nerve-
jangling two-run defeat against Sri Lanka.


That they got so close after collapsing to 133 for six in pursuit
of the 236 they needed was due to a stand of 87 between wicket-
keeper Nixon, who made 42 off 44 balls, and novice all-rounder
Ravi Bopara, bowled off the last ball from Dilhara Fernando for
52.


Nixon, 36, only made his one-day international debut during the
tri-series in Australia where England, following their 5-0 Ashes
thrashing, came back in the shorter form of the game to stun the
hosts 2-0 in the finals in February.


But England's form at the World Cup has been mediocre. They've
lost to the only two Test teams they've played - they were also
beaten first time out by New Zealand - and wins over the likes of
minnows Canada, Kenya and Ireland have been far from convincing.


Australia, by contrast, have enjoyed five wins from five matches
in their bid for an unprecedented third successive World Cup.


"It's important that now we beat the old enemy," wicketkeeper
Nixon said.


"It (the tri-series) gives us belief and you need belief that the
Australians are beatable."


The likes of England captain Michael Vaughan, who made nought
against Sri Lanka, and aggressive all-rounder Andrew Flintoff
have failed with the bat in the Caribbean and no-one in the side
has made a century at this tournament.


But Nixon insisted the likes of Vaughan and Kevin Pietersen, who
made 58 against the Lankans, were "due" a big score.


"We're due a hundred. We're due a big score. The cream always
rises to the top and I'm sure that one of those guys will pull it
out against Australia."


Bopara, who made his debut in Australia where he played only
once, showed a cool head under pressure and Nixon said of the 21
-year-old: "He does have a lot of self-belief. He's proved
himself a valuable selection. That was a major innings under
pressure against a very good team."


Nixon's knock saw him achieve the remarkable feat of reverse-
sweeping star off- spinner Muttiah Muralitharan for six.


"Before we went out too bat, Ravi and I were both a tad nervous
in the dressing room," Nixon recalled.


"I asked him what his plans were and he said: I'm thinking I
might sweep Murali. Do you fancy throwing me a few? So we got a
tennis ball and we spent about 10 or 15 minutes each practicing
sweeps and reverse sweeps in the dressing room."


"All of a sudden, a couple of quick wickets happened and we were
out there. Our plan was sweeps and reverse sweeps because he
(Muralitharan) bowls a really good length and, to be honest, no
cricketer reads him 100 percent."


There was a controversial moment just before the finish when fast
bowler Fernando stopped in his run-up before starting again and
bowling Bopara.


"Did he get his run up wrong? Was the little man in his head
talking about something he didn't want him to? Only he'll know
that," said Nixon.


"Whether it was a bit of gamesmanship, finding out what shot Ravi
was setting himself up for, who knows?


"He still bowled a great ball to finish the game and fair play to
him."

