

French far-right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen took his campaign for
the presidency to a rundown Paris suburb on Friday, telling
voters of immigrant origin that they are part of the nation.


"You are the branches of the tree that is France," Le Pen said,
standing on a concourse in Argenteuil northwest of Paris, less
than three weeks before the April 22 vote.


"You are full-fledged French citizens."


The 78-year-old leader of the National Front made the symbolic
campaign stop in Argenteuil, where frontrunner Nicolas Sarkozy is
unwelcome for calling young troublemakers "rabble" during a visit
in 2005 as interior minister.


Sarkozy also vowed to "hose down" criminal gangs in the suburbs
during a separate visit to another suburb La Courneuve a few
months earlier after a young boy was killed by a stray bullet.


"While some want to 'hose you down' to exlude you, we want to
help you get out of these suburban ghettos where French
politicians have left you, only to go on and call you 'rabble',"
said Le Pen whose unannounced visit drew a few curious
bystanders.


"I want to thank you for allowing me to speak in this place where
even our former interior minister does not dare go," he said.


Sarkozy, who stepped down as interior minister a week ago, has
mostly stayed away from the suburbs that exploded in rioting in
late 2005, the worst civilian unrest in France in decades.


The three weeks of rioting in October and November 2005
highlighted France's failures in integrating its immigrant
population, living in poor suburbs that are plagued with high
unemployment.


"You must contribute to the recovery of the French Republic
through work" said Le Pen, who promised that he would "not
forget" the problems of the residents of the suburbs, if elected.


The far-right leader, who is making his fifth run for the
presidency, stunned the nation in 2002 when he won enough votes
in the first round to run against Jacques Chirac in the runoff.


A former Foreign Legionnaire who served as an intelligence
officer in Algeria and as a paratrooper in Indochina, Le Pen has
been the champion of the far right for 35 years, calling for an
end to immigration and a halt to European integration.

