

Thousands of Christian pilgrims from around the world descended
on Jerusalem's Old City on Friday to retrace the path Jesus
traditionally took to his crucifixion.


Many shouldered wooden crosses as they made their way along the
cobblestoned Via Dolorosa, or Way of Suffering, to the Church of
the Holy Sepulchre where tradition says Jesus was crucified and
then buried.


Pilgrims, including Coptic Christians from Egypt and Indonesia,
sang hymns and read scripture beneath hazy skies as they visited
each of the 14 stations of the cross. The scent of burning
incense and candles wafted through the streets.


Representatives from two Muslim families, who have kept keys to
the church since the 13th century to prevent squabbling between
different Christian sects, opened the church's doors after dawn
to larger than usual crowds.


The higher turnout is thanks to a lull in Israeli-Palestinian
violence after over six years of uprising. Also, Catholics and
Orthodox Christians are celebrating Easter on the same day this
year, a rare coincidence.


Inside the church, pilgrims prostrated themselves and kissed the
slab of stone where Jesus is believed to have been laid out at
his burial.


"I am thrilled to be here, to smell the Holy City," said Abraham
Thayel, a 74-year old Indian pilgrim clutching a wooden cross in
his hand.


"The environment is fantastic here. I adore this city and I'm
going to stay five days more," said Waas Carol, 68, an Orthodox
Christian from Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the
world.


In the crowded streets, Palestinian merchants busily sold olive
wood crosses, hologram postcards of the Virgin Mary, and replica
thorn crowns along with other religious trinkets and souvenirs.


Muslims with prayer rugs slung over their shoulders picked their
way through the crowds of pilgrims on their way toward the Al-
Aqsa Mosque for Friday prayers.


Nearby, Jewish worshippers, in the midst of their week long
Passover celebration commemorating the exodus from Egypt, swarmed
to their holiest site, the Western Wall.


Lodomila Vilasovich, 53 and bleary eyed, came from Ukraine along
with 300 pilgrims to mark Easter. "I have not stopped crying all
morning. I can feel Christ's suffering," she said.


The route trodden by the pilgrims is based on a devotional walk
organized by the Roman Catholic Church's Franciscan order in the
14th century.


A monastery is built on the site where tradition holds that
Jesus' final journey to crucifixion began. It was there that the
Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, condemned him to death, but first
ordered that he be scourged.


The next eight stations, or points, along the way mark various
incidents that occurred as the exhausted and bleeding Jesus made
his way to the place outside the city walls where he was to be
crucified.


These include three occasions on which he fell under the weight
of the cross, once when he encountered his mother, Mary, and once
when a women named Veronica wiped the blood and sweat from his
face.


The final five stations are inside the church, beginning with
Jesus being stripped and nailed to the cross and ending with him
being taken down and laid in the tomb.


Watching the fervent crowds, Israeli police armed with M-16
rifles provided discrete security. A police spokesman said 300
police officers had been deployed throughout the Old City for the
day's events.


Ayoub Suleiman, in a galabiya and white turban, the traditional
garb of Egyptian peasants, stood out amid the faithful throngs.


"It is extraordinary. I hope I can come every year," said the
tireless 81-year old Copt from the southern Egyptian city of
Assiut.


"I pray God gives me the means to make this pilgrimage again,"
said Amalia Numaan, 62, also from Egypt.


Nearly 1,100 pilgrims came from Egypt to celebrate Easter in
Jerusalem, according to Coptic monk Andriwas Awad, despite a ban
by Pope Shenuda III, head of Egypt's Coptic Orthodox Church and a
fierce defender of the Palestinian cause.


Israel said more than 8,000 Palestinian Christians from the West
Bank and 500 from the Gaza Strip had been allowed into Jerusalem
to celebrate Easter, despite Israel blocking all West Bank
crossings for the Passover holiday.


The Good Friday procession is part of a week of Easter
festivities in the Holy City. On Thursday, the city's Christian
leaders reenacted Jesus's washing the feet of his 12 apostles.

