

Pakistan Friday moved its army into a tribal area cleared of
foreign Al-Qaeda militants by tribal fighters, an official said,
the first troop movement in the district since a peace agreement
was signed with local tribesmen in 2005.


Troops entered the mountainous Sheen Warsak area near Wana, the
main town in volatile South Waziristan, the official said, after
the last three days of fighting between tribal forces and foreign
Al-Qaeda-linked fighters left more than 60 militants dead.


"Army troops are now in Sheen Warsak to secure the area," the
security official told AFP.


The government has denied its troops were involved in fighting
that erupted last month as tribesmen, under an agreement with the
authorities, took up arms to drive out mainly Uzbek and Chechan
fighters.


Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao said more than 200 foreign
militants and more than 50 tribesmen had been killed since the
start of clashes on March 19.


Early Friday pro-government tribesmen stormed key bunkers
occupied by foreign militants, leaving around 20 militants dead,
bringing the total in recent days to more than 60.


Tribal fighters celebrated the capture of the bunkers by firing
tracer rounds in the air that illuminated the sky over Wana,
residents said.


The government says the tribesmen are trying to drive out Uzbek
and Chechen militants because the foreigners have ties to Al-
Qaeda and are involved in attacks on US and NATO forces in
Afghanistan.


The tribesmen overran several bunkers held by Central Asian
rebels, which were originally built by the Pakistani army but
vacated in 2005.


"They were very strong bunkers and Uzbek fighters were well
entrenched there. But the tribesmen managed to flush them out,"
local administration chief Mohammad Hassanzada told AFP.


"Some 20 bodies were found lying there before dawn and more
casualties were feared as the fighting continued throughout the
night," a security official said. Sporadic gunfire continued on
Friday morning.


Residents said the dead in the clashes overnight included seven
tribesmen, one of whom was the driver of their main commander,
Mullah Nazir, the former local Taliban leader.


The clashes broke out when Nazir ordered the foreign militants
led by Uzbek extremist Tahir Yuldashev, a one-time confidant of
Osama bin Laden, to disarm or leave the area.


Thousands of Arab and Central Asian militants were given shelter
by Pakistani tribesmen after fleeing Afghanistan when US-led
forces toppled the Taliban regime in late 2001, but the two sides
have now fallen out violently.


Tribal elders banged war drums on Wednesday to gather a force of
around 1,000 fighters to mount a final push against the
foreigners.


The tribesmen at a meeting on Thursday demanded help from
military helicopters and heavy weapons from the government to
capture the mountainous bunkers.


Uzbek fighters later Thursday torched the house of Sher Jan, in
Dana village, 10 kilometres (six miles) west of Wana. Jan has
been at the forefront of the efforts to bring the tribal force
together.


A gunbattle then erupted in which Jan's brother was killed and
his son and a nephew were wounded, security officials said.

