

Ukraine's Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych is seeking to throw
off a reputation as Moscow's man in his deepening political
tussle with the country's president, analysts here said on
Friday.


For many years a partisan of closer ties with Russia,
Yanukovych's powerbase is in Ukraine's industrial and mining
areas, many of them Russian-speaking with close ties to Russia.


But in the current circumstances, looking west is the logical
move, analysts said.


His arch-rival, Ukraine's pro-Western President Viktor
Yushchenko, triggered a political crisis here on Monday when he
announced he was dissolving parliament and called snap elections
after accusing lawmakers of violating the constitution.


The president has made it his top priority to integrate Ukraine
with Western institutions, including NATO.


Yanukovych, who came to power after parliamentary polls last
summer, has opposed NATO membership and vows that parliament will
keep working.


On Thursday he borrowed from Yushchenko's copybook, calling on
Western countries including Austria to step in and help mediate
in the stand-off.


"He is trying to convince those people who Yushchenko trusts to
tell him that he is wrong," said political analyst Mykhailo
Pogrebinsky, director of the Centre of Political and Conflict
studies in Kiev.


Meanwhile the prime minister has kept to a minimum his public
contacts with Moscow, the region's Soviet-era master.


The prime minister insisted on Thursday that he had not spoken
with Russian President Vladimir Putin since the crisis broke out,
although he said he would approach the presidents of both Russia
and European Union member Poland if needed.


The Kremlin's "direct and tactless" support of Yanukovych in a
flawed 2004 presidential election was a lesson to Yanukovych to
avoid such tactics, said Volodymyr Fesenko, an analyst at the
Penta research centre.


Yanukovych wants to break the stereotype of being Moscow's puppet
and build up his credentials as a European leader, he said.


Since his nomination in August, Yanukovych has travelled to
Brussels more often than to Moscow, he added.


"Europe is a club of real political leaders, respected and solid.
While the former Soviet Union is still a sort of private game
reserve where everyone depends on Putin," said Fesenko.


Yanukovych "has even tried to rival Yushchenko on European
integration," said Fesenko.


But Pogrebinsky predicted that Yanukovych's quest for Western
help would be in vain.


"I think this will come to nothing. Yushchenko is refusing every
concession Yanukovych offers," he said.

