

Embattled Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf is in negotiations
to win the support of exiled former prime minister Benazir
Bhutto, a minister and government officials said Friday.


Pakistan this week wound up a special team that had been
investigating alleged corruption by Bhutto, the country's first
female premier, during her two terms in power between 1988 and
1996, officials said.


Government officials said the team in the National Accountability
Bureau was closed this week in a move to facilitate indirect
contacts that had been going on between Musharraf and Bhutto --
who is now in exile in Dubai and London -- for some time.


Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid and Ports and Shipping Minister
Babar Ghuri both said on private television channels late
Thursday that a deal with Bhutto's opposition Pakistan Peoples
Party (PPP) was in the making.


"Serious negotiations are underway between the two sides but it
is not necessary that these will succeed," Rashid told AFP on
Friday. He declined to elaborate when asked what the two sides
were demanding from each other.


Musharraf is currently facing multiple challenges to his eight-
year hold on power.


The most serious is a crisis over his removal of the country's
chief justice, which has sparked several protests backed by
Bhutto's party along with other opposition groups.


However Pakistan People's Party spokesman Farhatullah Babar
denied any deal was being worked out with the military regime.


"There is no question," Babar told AFP. "This is a disinformation
campaign by the regime to create dissension within the opposition
ranks and to confuse the public."


He also dismissed the significance of the government's move to
effectively close the cell investigating the charges against
Bhutto -- the head of which has been transferred and given a new
provincial government posting.


"The government still chases Benazir Bhutto and (her husband)
Asif Zardari in courts both in the country and abroad," Babar
said.


"Our basic demand is free and fair elections and level playing
fields for all political parties and a caretaker set up to
conduct the elections. That demand has not been accepted by the
government."


Musharraf is due to seek re-election as president by national and
provincial assemblies before holding general elections, the
second during his tenure, late this year or early 2008.


He is under western pressure to ensure free and fair elections
involving mainstream liberal parties, to counter radical groups
who gained influential positions in the last polls in 2002 polls
due to a political vacuum.


As well as Bhutto, Musharraf has also exiled Nawaz Sharif, her
rival, successor and the only other major rallying figure for
Pakistani opposition.


Bhutto and Sharif recently held talks in London.

