

Iraqi and US soldiers were launching a massive security crackdown
in the central city of Diwaniyah on Friday amid clashes with
militiamen that left one dead, officials said.


Security forces imposed a curfew on the city from 5:00 am (0100
GMT) with only Iraqi and US troops, armoured vechicles and
militiamen visible on the streets as American helicopters circled
overhead, an AFP reporter said.


The US military distributed a statement in Arabic to local
journalists saying its troops were taking part in security plan
Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing Law), the same name given to
the Baghdad crackdown.


"It will impose the law. It will continue to include all towns
and neighbourhoods of the province with the agreement of the
local government," the statement said.


The operation came two days after Iraq said a crackdown launched
in Baghdad since mid-February, was being extended to other
flashpoint regions.


Clashes left one person dead and 19 others wounded on Friday,
said Hamid Gaati, head of the local department of health, and a
security official.


Gaati accused US forces of preventing ambulances from
transporting the wounded to hospital and urged humanitarian
organisations to come forward to ferry the casualties to
hospital.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers arrived from neighbouring towns
such as Kut, Babel and Najaf in order to raid gunmen hideouts in
Al-Askari, Al-Jumhuri and Al-Iskan in the northern parts of
Diwaniyah, an Iraqi military officer said.


Iraqi troops were supported by US helicopters and ground forces,
he added.


All entrances to Diwaniyah were sealed off until further notice
"to help us to carry out security plan Black Eagle to impose the
law," said an Iraqi security source in the city giving his own
version of the name for the operation.


An official in the local office of the movement of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who controls the Mahdi Army milita,
confirmed its fighters and US troops were clashing around Salim
Street and Al-Askari.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said, adding that top members of Sadr's movement
were to meet in the city Saturday.


The Americans believe Sadr, one of the leading opponents of US
troops in Iraq, has fled to Iran in self-imposed exile to escape
the Baghdad crackdown.


Sadr launched two bloody rebellions against US troops in 2004,
before joining mainstream politics, but the Pentagon considers
the Mahdi Army the most dangerous threat to stability in Iraq,
greater even than Al-Qaeda.

