

Following are the key points from a 23-page summary for
policymakers issued here on Friday by the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC).


The summary encapsulates for governments the evidence for the
impacts of climate change that are spelled out in a technical
report of some 1,400 pages.


-- Climate change is already happening


"Observational evidence from all continents and most oceans shows
that many natural systems are being affected by regional changes,
particularly temperature increases," says the summary.


Evidence includes glacier runoff, loss of permafrost, rock
avalanches in mountain regions and changes in some Arctic and
Antarctic ecosystems; earlier timing of leaf-unfolding in spring,
bird migration and egg laying; and shifts in the ranges of plant,
animal and fish species.


In addition, the ocean has become more acidic as a result of
absorbing carbon dioxide (CO2) from the air, although there is no
evidence yet that this has affected marine life.


-- Man-made warming is the clear cause


"Much more evidence has accumulated over the past five years to
indicate that changes in many physical and biological systems are
linked to anthropogenic [man-made] warming," says the report.


Of 29,000 sets of scientific data, 90 percent point to man-made
global warming rather than natural warming as the source of the
recorded climate change.


-- Future impacts


FRESH WATER: By mid-century, annual average river runoff and
water availability are projected to increase by 10-40 percent at
high latitudes and in some wet tropical areas, but fall by 10-30
percent at mid-latitudes and in the dry tropics, some of which
are already water-stressed areas.


"Drought-affected areas will likely increase in extent. Heavy
precipitation events, which are very likely to increase in
frequency, will augment flood risk," it says.


In addition water supplies derived from glaciers and snow melt
are projected to decline, reducing resources for regions where
more than a sixth of the world population currently lives.


ECOSYSTEMS: "Approximately 20-30 percent of plant and animal
species assessed so far are likely to be at increased risk of
extinction if increases in global average temperature exceed
1.5-2.5 C"  (2.7 F to 4.5 F).


AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY: Food production will rise slightly at
mid-to-high latitudes if the global temperatures increases 1-3 C
(1.8-5.4 F), depending on the kind of crop, but will fall in some
regions if the temperature goes beyond this range.


"At lower latitudes, especially seasonally dry and tropical
regions, crop productivity is projected to decrease for even
small local temperature increases (1-2 C, or 1.8-3.6 F), which
would increase the risk of hunger."


COASTS AND LOW-LYING AREAS: Coasts will be exposed to greater
risks of caostal erosion and sea-level rise, and the effects on
populations will increase the more settlement there is in such
areas.


Increases in sea-surface temperatures of about 1-3 C (1.8-5.4 F)
would cause coral bleaching and accelerate coral death.


By the 2080s, sea-level rise will place "many millions more
people" at risk of flooding and tropical storms. "The numbers
affected will be largest in the mega- deltas of Asia and Africa,
while small islands are especially vulnerable."


INDUSTRY, SETTLEMENT AND SOCIETY: The most vulnerable will be the
poor, especially those concentrated in fast-growing cities in
coastal and river flood plains.


EXTREME WEATHER: The panel says with increased confidence over
its last report in 2001 that heatwaves, flooding, drought,
tropical storms and surges in sea level are among the events that
"will become more frequent, more widespread and/or more intense"
this century.


ECONOMIC COST: Estimates of the true cost of global warming vary
widely, depending on the factors that go into the calculation,
such as storm damage and the impact on biodiversity. Every tonne
of CO2 emitted into the air costs from 10 dollars to 350 dollars,
according to the estimate.


HEALTH: The health of "millions" of people will probably be
affected by climate change. Malnutrition, deaths from heatwave,
storms and drought, diarrhoea, malaria and other pest-borne
diseases are some of the heightened risks.


- Response to the threat


ADAPTATION: Investing money now in measures to cope with the
future threat could ease the scope of some of the impacts.


At present, adapation is only being practised on a small scale.
There is a wide range of options about what can be done, but at
the same time there are "barriers, limits and costs," the report
observes.


MITIGATION: Mitigation, or reducing emissions that cause the
problem, should go hand in hand with adaption. "Many impacts can
be avoided, reduced or delayed by mitigation," says the report.


Catastrophe scenarios


- VERY LARGE IMPACTS: One hypothetical scenario would be the
melting of the Greenland and West Antarctic icesheet, where the
bulk of the world's freshwater is stored. But there is "medium
confidence" -- about a 50-percent degree of certainty -- that for
an even "partial deglaciation" to happen resulting in a sea level
rise of four to six metres (13-20 feet), warming of 1-4 C
(1.8-7.2 F) would have to occur over "centuries to millennia."


Another theorised doomsday scenario is the closedown of the Gulf
Stream, which gives Northwestern Europe its balmy weather despite
its high latitude. The Gulf Stream is "very likely" to slow this
century but "very unlikely" to stop, and higher temperatures will
help to offset the loss in warm-water flow.

