

Kimi Raikkonen said his Ferrari team had decided to tackle
Sunday's Malaysian Grand Prix using the same engine that suffered
slight water problems over the final laps of his victory in last
month's season-opening Australian Grand Prix.


The 27-year-old Finn, sporting a lavish black tattoo put on his
right forearm in memory of that triumph, explained that he was
confident his engine was strong enough to survive despite the
high temperatures at Sepang.


After clocking the fourth fastest time in Friday afternoon's
second practice session, behind his Ferrari team-mate Brazilian
Felipe Massa and the two Renaults driven by Italian Giancarlo
Fisichella and Finland's Heikki Kovalainen, Raikkonen exuded
quiet confidence for the weekend ahead.


"We are going to keep it, there is no reason to change it," said
Raikkonen.


"That is the situation right now. I am not worried."


He said it was too early to suggest that he and Massa had
demonstrated already that Ferrari retained a clear advantage over
their rivals, particularly McLaren- Mercedes-Benz and their
drivers defending world champion Spaniard Fernando Alonso and
young British tyro Lewis Hamilton.


"We need to do some more work on the set-up to make sure it is
all right, but we are doing alright. I feel we can do better.
There is some room to improve and I am sure we can do that."


Raikkonen's engine suffered problems during the final part of the
Australian Grand Prix, a race he dominated from start to finish.
His team chief Jean Todt said that it was nothing serious and
that speculation about it needing to be changed was not serious
and was misplaced.


"Rather than talking about technical issues, it is a sporting
matter," said Todt at a news conference.


"Since last year it is one engine for two weekends, we just
completed the first race in Australia and we are going to keep
both engines for Malaysia.


"The rumours started from speculation. It is true in the last
laps of the Australian Grand Prix, Kimi had a problem with a pipe
and he lost some water, very little water.


"We did some more checks and if it did not happen then Kimi
simulated the problems during the free testing here in Malaysia
and nothing demonstrated that we should change our programme
which is to keep the same engine for Malaysia."


Massa dominated practice at Sepang, setting the fastest time in
both sessions to prove that he may well be the man to beat as he
seeks to level the score with his team-mate.

