

The United States acknowledged the "global challenge" posed by
climate change, after a report on Friday by UN experts warned of
devastating damage to all continents from global warming.


"Climate change is clearly a global challenge and we all
recognize that it requires global solutions," said Sharon Hays,
leader of the US delegation at the Intergovernemental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC) after the unveiling of a summary of a major
IPCC technical report in Brussels.


The report warned that climate change is set to hit poor
countries hardest, and threatens nearly a third of the world's
species with extinction.


Global warming is set to power up tropical storms and heatwaves
in North America and threatens hunger and extinction of species
in the south.


The report said consequences could be catastrophic, depending
chiefly on how much carbon gas is spewed into the atmosphere from
burning oil, gas and coal.


United Nations chief Ban Ki-moon welcomed the report, urging
governments to act immediately to lessen the devastating impact.


It raised questions about possible measures to reduce harmful
emissions by the United States, regarded as the world's number
one emitter of greenhouse gases.


"This report further underscores what the (US) president has been
saying for some time about the seriousness of this challenge,"
said the chairman of the White House Council on Environmental
Quality, Jim Connaughton, answering questions on the report
alongside Hays.


He cited a pledge by President George W. Bush to reduce the
United States' gasoline (petrol) consumption by 20 percent over
the next 10 years and other "mandatory tools" affecting vehicles,
appliances and building regulations to reduce harmful emissions.


Connaughton insisted the United States, which has not adopted the
so-called Kyoto protocol on reducing emissions, was nevertheless
acting to curb damage.


"We are actually engaging the developing countries ... in
strategies for significantly reducing greenhouse gases," he said.


"I think you'll continue to see us advance new policies of a wide
variety," he added. "This groundswell of information is also
pushing along a groundswell of additional policies and
international cooperation."


Draft versions of the summary were fiercely disputed during a
week of tense negotiations. Publication was delayed after the
United States, China and Saudi Arabia objected to the wording of
certain parts.


At US insistence, summary drafters dumped a paragraph that said
North America was "expected to experience severe local economic
damage and substantial ecosystem, social and cultural
disruption," delegates in Brussels said.


Hays hailed the final version of the summary, however. "We think
that the summary document reflects a very robust reflection of
this underlying technical report," she said.


"We know that societies are going to need to and, indeed, are
able to lessen the impacts of climate change through adaptation"
to lessen the harmful effects added Hays, a representative of the
White House's science and technology policy office.

