

A suicide bomber slammed his car into a police checkpoint in the
restive city of Ramadi on Friday, killing 20 people, as security
forces launched a crackdown on a central city to quell violence.


The car-bomb attack, the second in a month targeting a police
checkpoint in Ramadi, came as US and Iraqi forces carried out
sustained clearing operations in the Sunni city, a stronghold of
Al-Qaeda militants.


"At least 20 people are killed and another 30 wounded," police
Colonel Tareq Yussef al-Dulaimi told AFP.


Dulaimi said two of the dead were policemen, adding that at least
another two police officers were wounded.


On March 12, a similar attack on a police checkpoint killed 12
people.


Ramadi and the surrounding Anbar province has witnessed increased
insurgent attacks in recent months after a group of Sunni tribes
joined with Iraqi government forces to battle Al-Qaeda militants.


Some Sunni tribal chiefs have told youngsters to join the Iraqi
security forces to counter Al-Qaeda attacks which have killed
hundreds of civilians in the province.


Al-Qaeda is allegedly using new tactics as it leads a raging
anti-American insurgency, including exploding chemical bombs.


Last month 350 civilians were hospitalised after three chlorine
bombs exploded near Ramadi and Fallujah, a former rebel bastion
town.


Clashes and casualties were also reported from the central city
of Diwaniyah on Friday where US-backed Iraqi soldiers launched a
major crackdown on Shiite militiamen.


Security forces imposed a curfew on the city from 5 am (0100 GMT)
with only Iraqi and US troops, armoured vehicles and militiamen
visible on the streets as American helicopters circled overhead,
an AFP reporter said.


The US military released a statement announcing that Operation
Black Eagle had been launched in Diwaniyah, involving Iraqi
forces supported by US troops.


"The decisive actions taken by the 8th Iraqi Army Division is
just the beginning of the government's plan to re-establish
security in the area and create an environment where the
government can improve the quality of life for the people of
Diwaniyah," said US commander Colonel Michael Garrett, whose unit
is assisting in the operation.


On Wednesday Iraq said that Operation Fardh al-Qanoon (Imposing
Law), launched in Baghdad in mid-February, was being extended to
other flashpoint regions.


The plan was introduced in the northern city of Mosul on Tuesday.


Friday's clashes in Diwaniyah left one person dead and 19
wounded, said Hamid Gaati, head of the local department of
health, and a security official, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


At least 1,400 Iraqi soldiers arrived from neighbouring towns
such as Kut, Babel and Najaf to raid gunmen's hideouts in Al-
Askari, Al-Jumhuri, Al-Iskan in the northern parts of Diwaniyah,
an Iraqi military officer said.


Iraqi troops were supported by US helicopters and ground forces,
he added.


All entrances to Diwaniyah were sealed off until further notice
"to help us to carry out security plan Black Eagle to impose the
law," said an Iraqi security source in the city.


An official in the local office of the movement of radical Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who controls the Mahdi Army milita,
confirmed its fighters and US troops were clashing around Salim
Street and Al-Askari.


"Most of the clashes are in northern Diwaniyah and are because of
the raids and arrests done by occupation forces against the Mahdi
followers," he said, adding that top members of Sadr's movement
would meet in the city on Saturday.


Diwaniyah is a regular site of clashes between Shiite militiamen
and security forces and also between various groups of militias.


Last August, nearly two dozen Iraqi soldiers and dozens of
militiamen were killed in similar clashes.

