

Agence France-Presse and Google signed a licensing agreement
Friday giving the search engine the right to post AFP news and
photos and settling a lawsuit filed by AFP two years ago.


A joint statement by the companies said the accord allows the
Internet giant to post AFP content on Google News and other
services. Details of the pact were not made public.


The deal "will enable the use of AFP's newswire content in
innovative, new ways that will dramatically improve the way users
experience newswire content on the Internet," the statement said.


AFP agreed to withdraw a lawsuit filed in March 2005 accusing the
world's number one Internet search engine of copyright
infringement for allegedly posting AFP headlines, news summaries
and photographs without permission.


The lawsuit, closely watched in the media industry, was filed in
the United States and France and sought damages and interest as
well as a bar on the use of AFP text and photos without prior
permission.


AFP chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pierre Louette welcomed
the agreement as a significant step forward for the Paris-based
agency, one of the world's top suppliers of news, photos,
graphics and video.


He said AFP headlines and photographs would again be available on
Google news, Google Actualites and other Google services, driving
traffic to websites displaying AFP news content. But the accord
also goes further.


"The agreement will allow uses of AFP's content in ways that go
beyond its typical use of content in Google's services, which
features just headlines and snippets of text to provide just a
taste of what an article offers," Louette said. He did not
elaborate.


AFP, with a staff of 4,000 journalists and stringers covering 165
countries, already has licensing agreements with Yahoo, MSN, AOL
and other major Internet players, as well as more than 7,000
clients worldwide.


Word of AFP's partnership agreement with Google came eight months
after the search engine announced a licensing deal with the
American news agency Associated Press. AP said Google had agreed
to pay for its content but provided no details.


Google, created in 1998 and based in California's Silicon Valley,
counts more than 10,000 employees and operates free search
services that provide results in 35 languages.

