

Iran is showing encouraging signs that the case of a French
academic prevented from leaving Tehran after his passport was
confiscated could be resolved soon, the French foreign ministry
said Friday.


Stephane Dudoignon, an expert on Islam and Central Asia, was
briefly detained by police who seized his passport on January 30
during a trip to the southeastern Sistan-Baluchestan province.


After two months of quiet diplomatic efforts to try to persuade
Tehran to let the academic go home, France this week made a
public appeal to Iran to quickly resolve the case, and on Friday
reported progress.


"Iranian authorities have been making rather encouraging
statements" about the Dudoignon case "these past days," said
foreign ministry spokesman Jean-Baptiste Mattei.


"We hope that a solution will be found quickly to settle the
administrative problem and to ensure that Mr Dudoignon's passport
is returned and that he can leave Iranian territory," he added.


Dudoignon told Le Figaro newspaper that Iranian authorities took
issue with his research of Iran's Sunni minority in Sistan-
Baluchestan, a province bordering Afghanistan and Pakistan.


The 45-year-old researcher was detained after photographing a
procession of Muslim Shiites celebrating the holy day of Ashura
and the reaction of Sunni bystanders in the town of Konarak, near
Chabahar.


"It's a very interesting topic that you are working on, but we do
not want it to get out," Dudoignon quoted security officials as
telling him.


Dudoignon said security officials objected to his meetings with
local leaders and his trip to Konarak, which authorities said was
an "off-limits military zone."


Sistan-Baluchestan has a Sunni majority in Shiite-dominated Iran
and is home to the shadowy Sunni militant group Jundullah, which
claimed responsibility for a bomb attack in February that killed
11 Revolutionary Guards.


Iran suspects the United States and Britain of supporting Sunni
separatists there.


While Dudoignon was allowed to return to Tehran, authorities held
onto his passport and he has been barred from traveling outside
the capital.


The academic, who lives in France where he works for the National
Center for Scientific Research (CNRS), told Le Figaro "I am
condemned to wait. But it's starting to drag on."


Iran on Wednesday released 15 British naval personnel who had
been held for 13 days, triggering a diplomatic crisis.

