

One of two French hikers who survived seven weeks in the jungle
of French Guiana on a diet of turtles and tarantulas was at
death's door when rescuers found him, his brother says.


Loic Pillois and Guilhem Nayral, both 34, had been missing since
mid-February. They turned up Thursday after spending seven weeks
living off river water, seeds, insects and the meat of two
turtles.


Nayral was airlifted to safety after his friend managed to reach
the village of Saul in central Guiana and instruct rescuers how
to find him. According to his brother Gilles, he was "almost
unrecognisable".


"Two or three more days in the forest and he was dead," he said.
Nayral's weight, normally of 75 kilos, was down to around 55 and
his arterial tension had "collapsed".


"Even his voice has changed, since his tongue was numbed from
eating a tarantula without cooking it through."


Suffering from from exhaustion, denutrion and severe weight loss,
Nayral was being held for observation in a hospital in Cayenne.
Pillois, though in satisfactory health, was also hospitalised.


Nayral's partner Emilie Perrier said both were plagued with
jungle parasites, including worms that burrow under the skin.


Emergency doctor Thierry Le Guen told AFP "it was a miracle we
managed to find Guilhem Nayral. At that spot, the forest is as
dense as broccoli." The jungle canopy in the area is 40 metres
(130 feet) deep, he said.


The pair had headed off in mid-February from the Grand Kanori
rapids, on the banks of the river Approuague, in the heart of
Guiana, without a GPS device, only a map and compass.


Once they realised they were lost, Gilles Nayral said, they built
a branch shelter where they stayed for three weeks, lighting
fires in hope of being spotted.


"They could hear helicopters flying overhead, further to the
north, but they turned back each time without seeing them. After
three weeks of waiting, since no help had come, they resumed
their walk."


"They told us they ate palm seeds, insects, tarantulas and two
turtles," he said. "My brother told me, 'I was so hungry that I
even ate the turtle's shell and its claws'."


According to a French specialist, Latin American tropical spiders
are edible in spite of their venemous bite and the sting of their
hairs.


"South American Indians eat them regularly," said Christine
Rollard, a spider specialist from the French Natural History
Museum. The spiders can weigh up to 200 grams.


"They cook them on the fire after tying their paws together, and
eat the soft parts. They also use them to make omelettes,
pressing the abdomen of females to squeeze out their eggs onto a
leaf."


However harmful their sting, their venom is harmless when
ingested, since it is broken down by the human digestive system,
she said.


But she said the Indians take care to remove the spiders' sharp
hairs, which can cause powerful allergic reactions -- the
probable explanation for Nayral's mouth swelling.


Nayral's brother and partner arrived this week in Guiana to
persuade rescuers to resume their search, which they called off
on March 26 after overflying the forest some 50 times.

