

An acceleration in US employment growth in March resulted in
180,000 new jobs, the government said Friday in a sign that the
economy is more robust than some had anticipated.


The increase in nonfarm payrolls, seen as one of the best
indicators of economic momentum, was much stronger that the gain
of 135,000 expected on Wall Street.


The Labor Department said the unemployment rate, calculated on a
separate survey of households, fell to 4.4 percent from 4.5
percent a month earlier. The last time the rate was lower was in
May 2001.


Additionally, the agency revised up its estimate for February to
show 113,000 new jobs were created instead of 97,000, and for
January to 162,000 from 146,000.


"This is a pretty solid report," said Scott Brown, chief
economist at Raymond James and Associates.


Brown said the data "provides strong support for consumer
spending," which accounts for two-thirds of US economic activity.


The report appears to support the hypothesis of Federal Reserve
chief Ben Bernanke and others that the world's biggest economy is
able to weather a big slump in housing and will maintain modest
growth in 2007.


"It does look like the overall economy is going to improve as the
drag from housing wanes," Brown said.


Nigel Gault, economist at Global Insight, said some of the rise
came from a "weather-related swing in construction employment"
but that the gains were nonetheless impressive.


"What matters most is that the labor market report serves as a
counterweight to the recent bleak reports on business capital
equipment spending," Gault said.


"If businesses were pulling back on both capital spending and
hiring, then recession scenarios would gain credibility. But
businesses are still hiring, the unemployment rate has fallen
again, and earnings growth remains solid."


John Silvia, chief economist at Wachovia Securities, said the
gains "suggest forward momentum for the economy with better gains
in consumer incomes and spending."


But he said the wage component of the report is "enough to
maintain Fed inflation concerns."


Average hourly wages rose 0.3 percent in March to 17.22 dollars.
Earnings have risen 4.0 percent in the past year.


The average work week rose slightly to 33.9 hours in March from
33.8 in the prior month.


The Federal Reserve, citing a tight labor market, has indicated
it remains vigilant on inflation and could lift interest rates to
keep price pressures in check.


The Fed has left its base federal funds rate at 5.25 percent
since June and has not backed down from its "bias" on inflation
despite warnings from some economists about weakening conditions
that could prompt a cut in rates.


Brown said the data overall "has got to reduce the odds of a rate
cut."


As a result, he said the strong report may be a disappointment to
the stock market and investors hoping for easier monetary policy,
even though the risks of a broader economic slowdown have been
reduced.


The overall employment gain was led by 137,000 new service-sector
jobs, including 54,000 in education and health.


The report cited a rise of 56,000 construction jobs, essentially
erasing a similarly steep drop in February, which had been the
sharpest decline in the sector since 1991.


John Challenger of the consulting firm Challenger, Gray and
Christmas said the report may be worrisome because it suggests
labor shortages in some sectors.


"Today's report underscores the significant potential for a rapid
economic slowdown in the coming months due to a profound lack of
quality workers," he said, noting that the unemployment rate for
those with a four-year college degree is just 1.8 percent.


"The labor situation can be great for workers since it means
increased wages, better perks and even the possibility of
lucrative signing bonuses," he said.


"However, labor shortages can be damaging to the economy,
increasing inflationary pressures and forcing companies to
postpone expansion plans due to the inability to staff new
operations."

