

One of two French hikers who survived for seven weeks in the
jungle of French Guiana on a diet of turtles and tarantulas, was
within days of dying, his brother said on Friday.


Loic Pillois and Guilhem Nayral, both 34, had been missing since
mid-February. They turned up Thursday after spending seven weeks
living off river water, seeds, insects and the meat of two
turtles.


Nayral was airlifted to safety after his friend managed to reach
the village of Saul in central Guiana, and give rescuers
instructions to find him.


According to his brother Gilles, Nayral was "almost
unrecognisable".


"Two or three more days in the forest and he was dead," he said.
Nayral's weight, normally of 75 kilos, was down to around 55 and
his arterial tension had "collapsed".


"Even his voice has changed, since his tongue was numbed by the
venom of a tarantula that he ate without cooking it through."


Suffering from from exhaustion, denutrion and severe weight loss,
Nayral was being held for observation in a hospital in Cayenne.
Pillois, though in satisfactory health, was also hospitalised.


Nayral's partner Emilie Perrier said both were plagued with
jungle parasites, including worms that burrow under the skin.


Emergency doctor Thierry Le Guen told AFP "it was a miracle we
managed to find Guilhem Nayral. At that spot, the forest is as
dense as broccoli." The jungle canopy in the area is 40 metres
(130 feet) deep, he said.


The pair had headed off in mid-February from the Grand Kanori
rapids, on the banks of the river Approuague, in the heart of
Guiana, without a GPS device, only a map and compass.


Once they realised they were lost, Gilles Nayral said, they built
a branch shelter where they stayed for three weeks, lighting
fires in hope of being spotted.


"They could hear helicopters flying overhead, further to the
north, but they turned back each time without seeing them. After
three weeks of waiting, since no help had come, they resumed
their walk."


"They told us they ate palm seeds, insects, tarantulas and two
turtles," he said. "My brother told me, 'I was so hungry that I
even ate the turtle's shell and its claws'."


Nayral's brother and partner arrived this week in Guiana to
persuade rescuers to resume their search, which they called off
on March 26 after overflying the forest some 50 times.

