

Japan's foreign minister regretted Friday the country has slipped
to become only the world's third largest donor, voicing concern
about the decline in the aid budget which has long been Tokyo's
key diplomatic tool.


Britain overtook Japan on a list of top donors released this week
by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.


"It is highly likely that (Japan) will drop further to fourth or
fifth place this year. I'm wondering if that's okay for a
country" which has been in second place, Foreign Minister Taro
Aso told reporters.


The United States remained the top donor, with France ranked
fourth followed by Germany, according to the OECD.


Japan, the world's second largest economy, has been officially
pacifist since defeat in World War II and has relied on
development aid, particularly low- interest loans, to promote its
foreign policy.


At the same time, Japan's overseas aid expenditure has declined
for the past seven years as the government tries to reduce a huge
fiscal deficit left over from stimulus packages following
recession in the 1990s.


The foreign aid budget is set to shrink another four percent to
729 billion yen (6.2 billion dollars) for the current fiscal year
to March 2008.


The OECD lists nations based on foreign aid budgets in absolute
financial terms.


One popular alternative is the Commitment to Development Index of
the Washington-based Center for Global Development, which adjusts
countries by size and looks at the quality of aid along with
other factors such as openness to trade.


This alternative index last year ranked Japan last among 21
wealthy nations, with the Netherlands coming in first.


In recent years, Japan has redirected aid spending to countries,
many in Africa, seen as pivotal in its cherished bid for a
permanent seat on the UN Security Council.


Japan also plans to end most aid to China -- a rising regional
competitor which has opposed Tokyo's UN bid -- by the time of the
2008 Olympics which are expected to showcase Beijing's newfound
global clout.


China, meanwhile, has become a donor on its own, raising hackles
among some western countries which accuse it of failing to push
on human rights and good governance.


"This is obviously the loss of diplomatic assets for Japan," said
Takehiko Yamamoto, professor of international relations at Waseda
University.


"Japan only has two diplomatic tools -- official development aid
and transfer of technology. But the decrease of aid in absolute
financial terms will eliminate one of the two tools," he said.


Japanese newspapers also voiced alarm at the fall in the OECD
list, warning it would impede Japan's frequent calls to secure a
global standing commensurate with the size of its economy.


"It is inevitable that we face financial limits. Our chief
challenge is how we can develop strategic aid policies," the
Nikkei business daily wrote in an editorial.


The Mainichi Shimbun warned that "if the absolute amount of the
aid budget decreases, it will become difficult to have strategic
options."


"We need to contribute to reducing poverty and establishing the
economic basis of less developed countries in order to enhance
Japan's reputation in the international community," the Mainichi
said.

