

Yemen's finance minister, who lost his job in a cabinet
reshuffle, has rejected the new portfolio offered to him, an
official said, quoted by the Yemen News Internet site.


On Thursday, President Ali Abdullah Saleh dumped Seif Mahyub al-
Assali from the finance ministry in a partial reorganisation of
the cabinet, naming the former head of internal revenue, Nooman
al-Dhahiri, to replace him.


Assali was offered the top job at the commerce and industry post,
but rejected it.


In statements published on the Internet site, Assali was quoted
as accusing "forces who were affected by my policies at the
finance ministry with exerting pressure" to have him removed from
the post.


The source said Saleh has now named Yahia al-Mutawakkel in
Assali's stead.


Saleh's new ministerial line-up marked the return of key
ministers to replace the reshuffled cabinet of former prime
minister Abdel Kader Bajammal.


The new government will be led by premier-designate Ali Mohammad
Mujawar, electricity minister in the outgoing cabinet.


No reasons were given for the replacement of the government led
by Bajammal since 2003.


A presidential decree said the important portfolios of interior,
defence, foreign affairs, oil and information would remain
unchanged.


Yemen is one of the poorest countries in the world, and major
donor countries, concerned that the reform process has stalled,
have stepped up pressure on Sanaa by linking aid to tangible
change.


Saleh first took office as leader of what was then North Yemen in
1978. He survived a 1994 civil war with the former communist
south and Al-Qaeda-inspired violence in the ancestral homeland of
Osama bin Laden.


Government forces are also battling followers of the rebel Zaidi
tribal leader Abdul Malek al-Huthi in the state's mountain
regions.


The tribe led a rebellion against government forces in 2004 and
2005 that left hundreds dead.


The Zaidis are an offshoot of Shiite Islam dominant in
northwestern Yemen, but form a minority in the mainly Sunni
country.


The rebels reject as illegitimate the regime which seized power
in a 1962 coup known as the September 26 revolution, overthrowing
a Zaidi imamate.

