

New Zealand's James Franklin is hoping his blinding migraine
attacks will not ruin his World Cup dreams.


The 26-year-old said on Friday that he first suffered from the
problem when he was 12 and never knows when he will be struck
down again.


In Monday's Super Eights win over Bangladesh in Antigua, he was
forced to leave the field when another migraine returned.


"It happened in the match against Bangladesh and it disappointed
me as it just comes from nowhere. It came on in the game just
after the drinks break," said Franklin.


"I feel as though I've been smacked in the head by a heavyweight
boxer but then I feel as though I can get on with it."


Franklin bowled just six overs to add to his three in the match
against the West Indies last week.


"Before Hobart (in February) I hadn't had a migraine for 18
months and the last time was in Zimbabwe during a Test match
there. Obviously it disappointed me as it just comes from
nowhere."


Franklin is now hoping the attacks stay away when the Black Caps
look to boost their push for a World Cup semi-final place when
they take on Ireland here on Monday.


"I hope it doesn't hinder me for the rest of the tournament. I
don't know the scientific reason why it hits me. All I can do is
prepare as well as I can. I get tunnel vision and a headache that
spikes me.


"In the drinks break (against Bangladesh) I was fine but when I
tried to focus on something it was all blurred. I bowled an over
after that and it was a blur and in the later part it was all
blue vision."


Franklin took two wickets in each of the group wins against
England and Kenya before being wicketless in the Super Eights
wins over the West Indies and Bangladesh.


"My role has actually changed a bit in the last couple of games.
I haven't found lot of swing. After the first five or six overs
it tends to go away so I have brought in variations," said
Franklin.


"I have done a bit while opening the bowling and coming on first
change but my figures haven't been great. Hopefully against
Ireland I can make amends," said Franklin who has 57 wickets in
60 one-day internationals.


"We have been pretty good so far in the sense that we have been
concentrating on each game as it comes. We were very clinical
against Bangladesh the other day."


Franklin said New Zealand will guard against complacency in their
match against Ireland -- a game where victory is likely to ensure
their passage to the semi- finals.


"It's great for Ireland to be here in the Super Eights, they did
a great job in their group. They are here for a reason because
they have been playing very good cricket so we must be on our
toes," said Franklin.


New Zealand, who have six points, are currently third behind
Australia and Sri Lanka in the Super Eights table.

