

Dozens of Ethiopian troop reinforcements headed to the Somali
capital after flying into a nearby town local residents told AFP
on Friday, five days after a shaky ceasefire took hold in
Mogadishu.


Residents of Baidoa, 250 kilometres (150 miles) northwest of
Mogadishu, said two Ethiopian planes landed on Thursday carrying
dozens of Ethiopian troops, who left for Mogadishu overnight.


"I have seen two huge military planes. They arrived at Baidoa
airport in the afternoon (Thursday). They carried a lot of
Ethiopian troops," said Mohamed Aden Abdi, who lives near Baidoa
airport.


"I have seen some nine military vehicles in the street. They were
going towards Mogadishu."


Another resident, Abdullahi Isak, said he saw five vehicles
carrying dozens of troops heading in the same direction.


Ethiopia denied it had deployed more troops to Somalia.


"This is not true. There are no additional troops to Somalia," a
spokesman from the Ethiopian information ministry, Zemedkum
Tekle, told AFP by telephone from Addis Ababa.


"It is getting calmer and calmer and there is no need to do that.
We have pulled out almost two-thirds of our troops from Somalia
and there is no need for further deployments."


An Ethiopian offensive just over a week ago triggered four days
of the worst fighting in Mogadishu in more than 15 years.
Hundreds of people were killed and tens of thousands forced to
flee.


On Monday Mogadishu residents said hundreds of Ethiopian forces
had joined deployments in the south of the city. Ethiopia said it
was strengthening its positions but had not deployed more troops.


On Friday brief exchanges of weapon fire and shelling could be
heard in the early hours near Mogadishu's soccer stadium, where
Ethiopian troops have been facing off with Islamist insurgents
and clan fighters since Sunday.


Most residents have fled the area, and the nearby Al Kamin
neighbourhood.


Ethiopian forces helped the Somali transitional government drive
Islamist fighters with alleged links to the Al-Qaeda network out
of south and central Somalia some three months ago.

