

Iran exerted "psychological pressure" on 15 British naval
personnel it held for 13 days, a top British officer said Friday
as he defended the group's actions and an inquiry began into
their capture.


As some of the 14 men and one woman prepared to make their first
public comments since their emotional return to Britain Thursday,
Admiral Sir Jonathon Band praised their bravery and dignity
during their detention.


But he rejected suggestions that they should not have made
"confessions" to their Iranian captors for allegedly breaching
the Islamic republic's territorial waters, and only have given
their name, rank and serial number.


"They weren't on combat operations. They weren't like people shot
down in Tornados in the (first) Gulf War," said Band, who as
First Sea Lord is head of the Royal Navy.


"I don't think there is any doubt from the statements some of
them made, and certainly the letters, that they were under a
certain element of psychological pressure.


"I think you will find out that they were actually a brave set of
youngsters."


On Thursday, Royal Marines officer Lieutenant Colonel Andy Price
claimed some of the group may have been left in solitary
confinement during their detention, despite the 15's appearance
together on Iranian television.


Meanwhile, the eight Royal Navy sailors and seven Royal Marines
spent their first night of freedom at the Royal Marine Base
Chivenor in Devon, southwest England, after being reunited with
their families and friends.


They are being debriefed and undergoing medical examinations.
Some of the group are due to address a news conference at 1500
GMT. In a joint statement released Thursday, the group said their
ordeal had been "very difficult".


A military inquiry was under way to determine how they came to be
captured as they conducted what Britain said were routine anti-
smuggling operations near the Shatt al-Arab waterway dividing
Iraq and Iran.


Band said the probe would look at the rules of engagement,
intelligence gathering, equipment and procedures to prevent any
repeat.


Until a complete review of the situation is complete, the Royal
Navy has suspended all boarding operations in the area, he added.


One of the 15, Royal Marine Captain Chris Air, told Sky News
television in an interview recorded a week before their detention
that British crews did gather intelligence on Iranian activities
in the Gulf area.


In his BBC interview, Band dismissed suggestions that the 15 had
surrendered too easily and that they should have fought back
against their captors.


"I think our people have reacted extremely well in some very
difficult circumstances," he said, adding that the decision to
board and search a merchant ship that led to their seizure was
"absolutely proper".


"I think they acted with considerable dignity and a lot of
courage," he added.


The group's return made headline news here Friday, but coverage
was tempered by the deaths of four soldiers, including two women,
in a roadside bomb attack in southern Iraq on Thursday.


The deaths bring the British death toll in Iraq in the last week
to six and 140 since the start of the US-led invasion in March
2003.


Prime Minister Tony Blair on Thursday repeated his assertion that
"elements" in Iran were backing insurgent attacks in Iraq,
although it was too early to say whether there were definite
links for the latest attack.


British newspapers highlighted similarities between explosive
charges used by insurgents in southern Iraq and Iranian weapons.


The Sun tabloid said Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has
"our blood on his hands", claiming the bomb attack that killed
the four soldiers was "almost certainly engineered" by the
Iranian president.

