

France's influential centre-left newspaper Le Monde on Thursday
endorsed the Socialist Segolene Royal for president, urging
French voters to take a "gamble" on her candidacy.


Although it said Wednesday's televised debate between Royal and
the right-winger Nicolas Sarkozy, the election favourite, was
"not likely to turn the tables" in her favour, it stressed the
die was not yet cast ahead of Sunday's vote.


Le Monde argued that a Royal victory would bring a historic
opportunity for the French left, giving her "the authority to
carry out a vital reinvention" of the Socialist Party (PS), and
"find a way out of its ideological dead-end."


"It's a gamble. For the country's sake, it is one worth taking,"
Le Monde wrote, warning that a Royal defeat would "plunge the PS
into score-settling, a return of archaic ideas and negative
utopias."


Commenting on Royal's sometimes shaky campaign, it said her chief
weakness had been her party's failure to modernise its discourse,
but that she "had the intuition to shake up the Socialist order."


While giving the frontrunner Sarkozy credit for rallying voters
around a "coherent" programme, Le Monde argued that Royal's plans
to kickstart growth by improving labour relations were equally
"coherent and defendable".


Arguing that both candidates embodied "two Frances, two visions
of society," it drew a contrast between the wealthier, mainly-
white public at Sarkozy's main Paris rally this week and the
ethnically and socially mixed crowd that packed a stadium in the
capital for Royal.


Le Monde strongly questioned Sarkozy's tactic of appealing to
far-right votes on themes of immigration and crime and voiced
concern that his "American"-style tax policies risked sharpening
social inequalities.


It also accused him of a tendency to split voters into camps --
"workers" against "benefit cheats" -- "as if constantly looking
for an enemy."


And it echoed the concerns of Sarkozy's rivals over his personal
ties with several French media barons, saying it was "the mark of
a potential power that calls for the utmost vigilance."

