

United Airlines said Thursday it was launching of two nonstop
flights from the United States to Asia and Latin America to
strengthen its international network.


Daily passenger and cargo service between Los Angeles and Hong
Kong and Washington and Rio de Janeiro will begin in October,
said United, which recently won fierce competition for a non-stop
service to Beijing.


The Chicago-based airline said the Hong Kong route also would
provide service to Ho Chi Minh City and was partly aimed at
attracting customers in the Los Angeles area, home to the
country's largest Vietnamese population, and an additional
connecting opportunity to Singapore.


United will operate the Los Angeles-Hong Kong service using a
Boeing 747 aircraft.


The new seasonal, non-stop service between the Washington Dulles
International Airport and Rio de Janeiro will upgrade the
previous one-stop service and will be offered on a Boeing 767,
United said in a statement.


With the new Rio service, United will serve 22 international
destinations from the Dulles airport, located in the Washington
suburbs in Virginia.


In March, United launched the first-ever nonstop, capital-to-
capital service from Washington to Beijing, after winning
approval for the new, single service from the US government over
competing bids from three US carriers.


The US and Chinese governments each awarded rights to a local
carrier for seven flights a week connecting the two countries,
under a 2004 aviation agreement.


"We are pleased to enhance our Asia service for our Los Angeles
customers, as well as continue to strengthen Washington Dulles
(airport) as our East Coast international gateway," Kevin Knight,
United's senior vice president of planning, said in a statement.


"Adding these routes enables United to enhance our route network
for our customers while creating new revenue opportunities for
United."


UAL Corp., the parent of United, one of the so-called legacy US
carriers hit hard in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001
terror attacks, emerged from bankruptcy protection in February
2006.

