

World crude prices extended losses on Thursday as traders
overlooked unrest in crude producer Nigeria to concentrate on the
state of energy stockpiles in key consumer the United States.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
fell 50 cents to 65.75 dollars per barrel in electronic deals.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, dipped 73 cents to 62.95 dollars per barrel in
floor trading.


Crude prices had also fallen on Wednesday, despite a decline in
US gasoline or petrol reserves, as traders bet on a build-up in
stocks following improvements in refining output.


Gasoline stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-demand holiday
driving season in the United States, which starts at the end of
May.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) had said Wednesday that US
gasoline reserves had fallen by 1.1 million barrels to 193.1
million last week.


The DoE report "was not exactly good news, but the gasoline stock
drop was not massive," said Global Insight analyst Simon Wardell.


Despite the smaller-than-expected drop, it was the 12th weekly
decline in a row for gasoline stocks, which have fallen by 34.1
million barrels since the start of February.


The DoE meanwhile added that American refineries ratcheted up
their gasoline production last week, with capacity utilization
increasing by a half point from the prior week to 88.3 percent.


"There is maybe a little confidence that over the next few weeks
utilization rates will be pushed up," Wardell added.


Earlier Thursday, jitters over Nigerian supplies had pushed oil
prices higher after news that armed men had overnight abducted at
least 18 foreigners in the country's south during the latest
spate of violence there.


"Crude futures were higher this morning (on Thursday),
underpinned by fresh concerns about violence in Nigeria," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


The latest attacks, for which no group has claimed
responsibility, follow a kidnapping Tuesday in which six
expatriates were seized from a floating oil vessel by Nigeria's
most high profile armed group, MEND.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks to pipelines.

