

The Swedish maker of speciality steel SSAB said Thursday it had
agreed to buy Canadian group IPSCO for 7.7 billion dollars (5.6
billion euros) in the latest cross-border deal in the fast-
consolidating steel sector.


It said in a statement the all-cash offer was made at a price of
160 dollars per share and had been approved by IPSCO and SSAB
management.


"This acquisition represents an extra step in SSAB's 2010
strategy to ensure its leadership in high-value-added steel,"
group chairman Olof Faxander said.


"Through this operation, SSAB is accelerating its growth and
buying a platform for its future expansion and its presence on
the north American market," he said.


SSAB said it expected cost savings of 600 million Swedish kronor
(65.54 million euros, 89.11 million dollars), mostly over the
next two years, due to the takeover.


The takeover of European steel giant Arcelor by Indian-run rival
Mittal last year unleashed a wave of takeovers and mergers in the
sector and created by far the biggest group in the world.


Last week the Russian media had reported that Russian steel group
Evraz, in which billionaire Roman Abramovich owns a 41-percent
stake, was in negotiations to buy IPSCO.


Late last year Evraz bought US Oregon Steel Mills, a move which
it described at the time as giving it a "footprint" in north
America.


After swallowing up Arcelor, Mittal Steel company is pushing
ahead with its expansion through takeovers of Mexican group
Sicartsa and US group Noble while also making plans to open new
plants and iron mines around the world.


In one of the most recent examples of consolidation, Indian group
Tata bought British-Dutch group Corus.


Demand for steel has boomed around the world in recent years led
by the auto and construction sectors.


SSAB shares, which were suspended earlier pending the
announcement, plunged after trade resumed on profit-taking and
uncertainty it will be able to deliver the forecasted cost-
savings, analysts said.


The shares finished the day 5.53 percent lower at 230.5 kronor in
Stockholm.


"I think that in the longer term investors may come to like the
acquisition, but the share has risen sharply on speculation that
it may be bought, but that didn't happen," Claes Rasmuson at
Swedbank said.


"There is also some uncertainty about the deal, whether SSAB can
deliver (the cost savings)," he added.


IPSCO chairman David Sutherland said the merger with SSAB offered
value for the company's shareholders.


On April 12 IPSCO was valued at about 6.13 billion dollars on the
New York Stock Exchange.


It reported a net profit of 643 million dollars last year and
produced about four million tonnes of steel.


SSAB made first quarter net profit of 1.544 billion kronor, an
increase of 38.7 percent compared to the same period last year,
with its sales leaping by 15.2 percent to 8.78 billion kronor.


The Swedish group said its banks have agreed to finance the
transaction.

