

The commander of US forces in the Middle East said Thursday that
Iraqi leaders are not moving quickly enough to make political
changes needed to stabilize the country.


Admiral William Fallon, head of the US Central Command, said
progress made by US and Iraqi forces in reducing sectarian
violence in Baghdad has not been matched by political progress on
reconciliation.


"They are not moving, in my opinion, fast enough to support what
we are trying to do in the country," Fallon told the Senate Armed
Services Committee.


He said US officials were trying to make sure "the leadership in
Iraq understand we don't have unlimited time, that we must move
forward, that they are going to have to make these tough
decisions.


The admiral, who is new to the Central Command, said he has not
begun planning for a possible redeployment of US forces from Iraq
but said, "it's certainly something we're going to think about."


President George W. Bush this week vetoed a war funding bill that
would have required US forces to begin withdrawing from the
country in October, with an April 1 target date for completion of
the pullout. Democratic leaders have vowed to continue to press
for an end to the war in Iraq.


Fallon gingerly addressed questions about the future US military
presence in Iraq, saying the focus for now is on completing the
surge in US forces.


"But I've asked them to start taking a look at alternatives for
where we might want to be in the future," Fallon said.


"I envision that we will want to be and will asked to be in Iraq
for some period of time with some representation of US
capability, just as we do in other countries," he said.


"Now what that's going to be, how soon we transition to what
might be an enduring presence there to do the kind of things we
do in other countries, I think is something we need to be
thinking about right now, and start doing at least do the initial
planning for," he said.


There are currently 146,000 US troops in Iraq. The number is
expected to climb to about 160,000 by June with the arrival of
the last of five additional US combat brigades.


Fallon said that if borne out, reports that Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki's office has been interfering with Sunni commanders in
the Iraqi Army would undercut public confidence in the
government.


"The reports that this office of the commander-in-chief is in
fact working behind the scenes to set up a parallel organization
to the minister of defense is disturbing," he said.


He said he and US Ambassador Ryan Crocker and General David
Petraeus intend "to make clear to the prime minister that this
kind of an operation would be severely degrading to any attempt
to move forward."


But he stopped short of calling it a violation of Maliki's
commitment not to interfere with Iraqi security force operations,
a key US condition in surging additional troops to Baghdad
earlier this year.


Fallon portrayed Maliki as recognizing that he had to represent
national interests, but also had to contend with polarized Shia,
Sunni and Kurdish factions with little trust for each other.

