

Senator Hillary Clinton Thursday launched a new bid to bring US
troops home from Iraq, joining an effort to strip President
George W. Bush of his congressional authorization to wage war.


Clinton, who has vowed to end the conflict if she is elected
president in 2008, joined veteran Democratic Senator Robert Byrd
to frame legislation which would repeal Bush's authority to wage
war on October 11 this year -- exactly five years after the
Senate gave its original consent.


"It is time to reverse the failed policies of President Bush and
to end this war as soon as possible," said Clinton in a speech on
the Senate floor as the bill was formally introduced.


"I believe a full reconsideration of the terms and conditions of
the authorization is overdue," Clinton said, two days after Bush
vetoed a Democratic attempt to establish timelines for a troop
withdrawal from Iraq.


Bush was authorized by Congress to use military force against
Iraq in October 2002, on the grounds that its alleged weapons of
mass destruction stocks were a security threat and that it had
interfered in United Nations weapons inspections.


Clinton voted to give Bush the authorization, and has since faced
fierce pressure on the presidential campaign trail to apologize
for the decision.


She has declined, but said she takes responsibility for her vote,
and would not have voted the same way, had she known then, what
she knows now.


"It is time to sunset the authorization for the war in Iraq,"
Clinton said.


"If the president will not bring himself to accept reality, it is
time for Congress to bring reality to him," she said.


Byrd said that a new Iraq war authorization would force Bush to
"be clear about what he now hopes to accomplish in Iraq."


The attempt is similar to a tactic mooted by another Democratic
senator, Joseph Biden, earlier this year, which never came to a
vote in the closely divided Senate.


At that time, the White House said it would fight any move to
curtail Bush's powers, and argued US forces were in Iraq at the
invitation of the government in Baghdad and authorized by the
United Nations.

