

Segolene Royal, undaunted by a barrage of opinion polls that say
she will lose this weekend's French presidential election to
Nicolas Sarkozy, looked anything but a defeated woman when she
marched triumphantly onto a rock concert stage here Thursday.


"This Sunday, this victory that we want so much for France, is
now within reach," Royal told 20,000 flag-waving, balloon-
wielding, wildly cheering Socialist supporters at a concert hall
in the northern city of Lille.


"There are just two days left - don't let up the effort," she
told her last rally before Sunday's vote as she called for a mass
turnout in the weekend vote.


The crowd had been warmed up by thumping rock music interspersed
with speeches from Socialist party heavyweights such as Jacques
Delors, the former president of the European Commission, and
French celebrities like the rock singer Renaud.


And then Royal, easily spotted amid the throng wearing a bright
red jacket and black skirt, cut her way through the audience,
clasping hands and smiling broadly as she went.


She then climbed up on to the stage to stand at a lectern
emblazoned with her campaign slogan, "La France Presidente."


"Good evening, Lille," she began, sparking wild cheers that were
repeated after almost every sentence of her hour-long speech.


"With me politics will change," declared Royal, who wants to be
France's first woman president.


Like Sarkozy, who was holding his final rally at the far end of
France in the southern town of Montpellier on Thursday, she says
she will break with the discredited poltics of the past.


Royal says she will bring about change with a combination of
left-wing economic policies and traditional socialist values, but
she says Sarkozy's rightwing economic aganda represents reform
"with brutality."


She returned to that theme here on Thursday, telling the crowd in
this staunchly Socialist northern city that she did not want "a
France dominated by the law of the strongest."


She preferred "a new France, a protecting France, a fraternal
France, a competitive France."


"That's where I want to lead you," she said, to more clapping and
cheering and cries of "Segolene president!"


That was where Marise, a 29-year-old research student, wanted to
be led.


"France needs someone who can bring the French together, and
that's Segolene. Not divide them like Sarkozy would," Marise, who
did not want to give her surname, said as she listened to Royal's
speech.


"She's the president France needs now. Because France is sinking
and we need someone who will pull it back. Sarkozy would do the
opposite," she said as she pressed againt the crush barrier at
the front of the hall.


"France will be a more balanced society with Royal," said 60
-year-old dance teacher David Cissoko, who came to France as a
child from the west African country Mauritania.


"All Sarkozy talks about is immigration, immigration,
immigration. He's taken the far-right's ideas," he said.


Cissoko, like every other supporter AFP spoke to here, was
convinced that Royal had come out as the winner of Wednesday
night's two-and-half-hour long televised debate wiith Sarkozy.


Back up on the stage, Royal continued her speech, going through
the reasons why she will be the best choice for the future of
France when voters head to the polling booths on Sunday.


The crowd cheered and cheered right until the end, when Royal
wound down with a confident: "Until Sunday then! Vive la
republique, vive la France!"

