

Hardline settlers and peace activists rallied in a rare show of
unity on Thursday, calling on Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and his
cabinet to step down following a damning report on last year's
Lebanon war.


"Bunglers go home" shrieked a massive black-and-red poster
forming the backdrop of the central stage at Rabin Square in
central Tel Aviv, where according to police estimates some
150,000 people gathered.


Nine months after Israel ended its war against the Shiite
Hezbollah with unimpressive results, the public call for Olmert's
resignation was reignited this week after a commission of inquiry
found the country's leadership responsible for "serious failures"
during the 34-day war.


Standing beside a display lampooning Olmert, Defence Minister
Amir Peretz and former chief of staff Dan Halutz, who stepped
down in January, protester Cathelin Rata said it was time for the
leadership to stand down.


"I have come to protest against the failure of Olmert's
government. They must go," said Rata, 37, from the north of the
country. Her husband served as a reserve soldier during the war.


After a minute's silence in memory of the more than 160 Israeli
soldiers and civilians killed during the confict, the father of
one soldier who was killed went up to the podium.


"You serve the people -- the people don't serve you," he called
on Olmert.


"You have wasted the chances to return the prisoners," said
world-renowned author Meir Shalev, referring to two soldiers
abducted by Hezbollah last July 12 in a cross-border raid that
sparked the Lebanon war.


"But worst of all, you have wasted the lives of fighters and
civilians."


"The Second Lebanon War revealed a confused and unworthy
leadership," Uzi Dayan, one of the demonstration's organisers,
told the crowd.


"Do the right thing -- go home and return the mandate to the
public," he continued as the crowd replied with shouts of "Olmert
go home!"


Although the protest's organisers wanted to avoid giving the
event any factional bias, dozens of opposition lawmakers and
activists from across the political spectrum brandished placards
bearing party slogans.


Right- and left-wing activists busied themselves handing out
pamphlets and bumper stickers.


Three young settlers from the occupied West Bank said they had
come to protest not only against the Lebanon war but also about
Israel's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip in 2005, a move led by
Olmert and his predecessor Ariel Sharon.


"Olmert is the worst prime minister Israel has ever had," said
Baruch Natan, 18, standing under placard reading "Olmert - Over
and Out!"


The beleaguered premier has so far fended off calls for his
resignation in the wake of Tuesday's scathing interim report by
the commission headed by former judge Eliyahu Winograd.


More than 1,200 Lebanese, mostly civilians, were killed during
the 2006 war which ended on August 14 with a UN-brokered
ceasefire.

