

World crude prices retreated Thursday as traders discounted
unrest in crude producer Nigeria to focus on energy stockpiles in
key consumer the United States.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in June, dipped 49 cents to close at 63.19 dollars per
barrel.


In London, the price of Brent North Sea crude for June delivery
fell 20 cents to end at 66.05 dollars per barrel.


Crude prices also had fallen on Wednesday, despite a decline in
US gasoline, or petrol reserves, as traders bet on a build-up in
stocks following improvements in refining output.


Gasoline stockpiles are in focus ahead of the peak-demand holiday
driving season in the United States, which starts at the end of
May.


The US Department of Energy (DoE) said Wednesday that US gasoline
reserves had fallen by 1.1 million barrels to 193.1 million last
week.


Gasoline reserves have fallen by 34.1 million barrels, or 15
percent, since early February.


Even though the reserves had fallen for the 12th straight week,
the decline was less than the 1.3 million expected.


Though it was the lowest level for an end of April reporting
since 1956, "it seems that the market is holding out hope that
somehow maybe things will get better," said Phil Flynn, of Alaron
Trading.


"Still the question has to be asked: with inventories 15.5
million barrels below the lower end of the average range for this
time of year, can we afford even a minor mishap or problem before
gas prices scream to record highs?" he asked.


Another analyst attributed the price slide mainly to the US
government's announcement Wednesday that it would halt buying
crude for its strategic petroleum reserve (SPR), possibly for
several months.


"With the DoE potentially halting the SPR purchasing until the
end of the summer and the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency)
hinting at a waiver of complicated summer gasoline rules, it
would seem like the administration is making an attempt to head
off the rising tide of gasoline prices prior to the driving
season," said John Kilduff, of Man Financial.


Earlier Thursday, jitters over Nigerian supplies had pushed oil
prices higher after news that armed men had overnight abducted at
least 18 foreigners in the country's south during the latest
spate of violence there.


More than 40 foreigners have been kidnapped in Nigeria since
Tuesday.


"Crude futures were higher this morning (on Thursday),
underpinned by fresh concerns about violence in Nigeria," Sucden
analyst Michael Davies said in London.


The latest attacks, for which no group has claimed
responsibility, follow a kidnapping Tuesday in which six
expatriates were seized from a floating oil vessel by Nigeria's
most high profile armed group, MEND.


Nigeria is the world's sixth-biggest oil exporter, but its output
is being severely hit by frequent kidnappings of foreign oil
workers and attacks to pipelines.

