

Virginians from Governor Tim Kaine down are brushing up on the
dos and don'ts of royal protocol as they prepare to greet
Britain's Queen Elizabeth II.


Just before the monarch was due to arrive in the state capital
Richmond Thursday to start a six-day state visit to the United
States, Kaine said he was most concerned "to curb my natural
American tendency to be touchy-feely."


The state's Democratic governor said he was also worried about
getting the royal titles right, including for the queen's
husband, Prince Philip, who is addressed as "Your Royal Highness"
and definitely not "Your Majesty."


Virginians can access a special website for the royal visit set
up by the state government that includes this advice: "When first
meeting the Queen, she should be addressed as 'Your Majesty' and
then 'Ma'am' (rhymes with jam)."


The website stresses that everyone stands when Her Majesty enters
a room, and if she stops eating during a banquet, so should you.


Don't offer to shake hands unless the queen first offers hers,
but for Americans, there is no obligation to bow. If as a woman
you do feel the need to curtsey, it is done by "placing the right
foot behind the left heel and then slightly bending the knees."


Not every foreign leader has done their homework before greeting
Britain's head of state.


Most notoriously, Australia's then prime minister Paul Keating
wrapped his arm around the queen in 1992, sparking a storm of
controversy in Britain's feisty tabloid press.


Another breach of protocol was easily forgiven by the queen when
she last visited the United States in 1991, when she was given a
bear hug by enthusiastic local Alice Frazier in a poor part of
Washington.


That visit also saw the "Podiumgate" incident, when organizers
forgot to provide a step for the queen behind the tall lectern
from which she delivered a speech on the White House south lawn.


All that the audience, including then-president George Bush,
could see was the royal hat peeking over the microphones. The
next day Elizabeth joked at another ceremony: "I do hope you can
see me today."


Kaine said that etiquette hurdles aside, the citizens of the New
World's first English colony would show "our affection for her."


"This is a great moment for our nations to reaffirm those bonds
of friendship," added the governor of Virginia, which is named
after the present queen's celebrated namesake, the Virgin Queen,
Elizabeth I (1533-1603).

