

Afghanistan's Taliban rebels said Thursday they have yet to be
contacted over the demands they want met to release a French man
and three Afghans they are holding hostage, as the insurgents'
deadline looms.


"Our demands are still the same, which are the withdrawal of
French troops from Afghanistan or the release of our prisoners,"
said Yousuf Ahmadi, a spokesman for the Taliban, which has been
holding the aid workers for a month.


"We compiled a list of our prisoners and indirectly we sent it to
the French. Unfortunately so far no-one, neither the French nor
the Afghan government, has contacted us regarding the issue."


"Our deadline expires on Saturday," he said.


Ahmadi said the Taliban's leaders would decide on a course of
action should there be no response to the ultimatum. In previous
cases this had included beheading.


"If our demands are not met, our position is clear but of course
we will wait for the decision of the leading council. The final
decision will be made by the leading council after the expiration
of the deadline," he said.


The four men were in "good health and have no problems," he said.


Another Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said a committee
handling the issue "will decide wether they will extend the
deadline or make any other decision."


The extremists -- who have beheaded several Afghan hostages, and
some Turks and Indians -- released April 28 a French woman,
Celine Cordelier, captured with the men in the southwestern
province of Nimroz.


They then said they would give the French government another week
to address their demands over the other hostages in light of the
May 6 presidential election in France.


"They were and are busy in France and do not have enough time for
things out of the country," Mujahid said. "Now it is for the
French government to make the decision about their citizen."


The five abductees worked for French aid agency Terre d'Enfance
(A World For Our Children), which appealed to the Taliban on
Wednesday to show mercy.


"In freeing Celine, you showed understanding towards these
volunteers, who are all committed to a humanitarian programme
that helps children. We are all grateful to you.


"Our sense of relief will not be complete until Eric Damfreville
and his three Afghan companions have in turn been reunited with
their families," its statement said.


President Hamid Karzai said Wednesday his government was doing
what it could to secure the release of the four.


"We are in close coordination with France, we are doing
everything in that regard," Karzai told reporters.


His government has come in for heavy criticism after it released
last month five Taliban prisoners, including high-ranking rebel
commanders, in exchange for an Italian journalist the rebels had
held for two weeks.


The Taliban beheaded the Italian's translator after the
government refused to free two more rebels from government jails.
The group's driver was also killed.

