

Voting went on into the evening Thursday in local and regional
elections in England, Scotland and Wales, in what is seen as a
key test for outgoing Prime Minister Tony Blair's Labour party.


Attention was focused in particular on Scotland, where the
Scottish National Party (SNP) has promised a referendum on
independence if it comes out on top, triggering warnings of a
break-up of the United Kingdom.


The ballots come as Blair prepares to hand over power after 10
years, almost certainly to his erstwhile rival, finance minister
Gordon Brown.


Some 39 million people are entitled to vote in what some in the
British media are calling "super Thursday."


In England, around 10,500 seats are up for grabs in 312 local
authorities; in Wales, voters are choosing a new 60-seat Welsh
Assembly; while in Scotland, they are voting for the 129-member
Scottish Parliament.


Analysts say Labour could lose between 600 and 700 seats, while
the SNP could grab the lion's share in the devolved Scottish
parliament.


The Conservatives are trying to secure an electoral bridgehead
for their return to power at Westminster, which they lost in 1997
to New Labour.


The centre-right party has gradually overtaken Labour in opinion
polls since reform-minded David Cameron became their leader 18
months ago, vowing to transform the Tories into a centrist and
electable force.


For Scotland, a new poll Thursday gave the SNP a clear five-point
lead in the race for the Scottish Parliament. The YouGov survey,
published in the Daily Telegraph, gave the Nationalists 32
percent, against 27 percent for Labour.


Labour's prospects are better in Wales, where opinion polls and
council by- election evidence suggest that support for the Plaid
Cymru nationalists may have peaked.


Welsh results were expected from late Thursday evening, after the
closure of polls at 10:00 pm (2100 GMT), while in Scotland the
first indications were probably not due until after midnight.


In England, more than half of local council ballots will not be
counted until Friday morning.


While local polls are being watched with interest on the ground,
in London all eyes are on next week, when Blair is expected to
set out his departure plans.


The Labour leader, who celebrated his 10th anniversary in power
on Wednesday, had originally planned to serve a full third term
after the 2005 general election, which could have taken him up to
2010.


But he was forced to agree to stand down early after a "coup"
last year widely believed to have been organized by supporters of
Brown, who has reportedly fumed for years that Blair reneged on a
deal to hand power to him.


On Thursday Blair's office denied a report that Blair will
announce next week that he is standing down as a lawmaker, as
well as Labour party leader and therefore prime minister.


"The announcement next week will be solely about the prime
minister as leader of the Labour Party," said his official
spokesman. "He has made no decision whatsoever to stand down as
an MP."


Blair used his anniversary in power Wednesday to list his
achievements in office, including giving greater autonomy to
Scotland and Wales through regional assemblies in Edinburgh and
Cardiff.


At the same time, he urged Scottish voters not to be enticed by
the SNP, who he accuses of seeking to break up the United
Kingdom.


"I hope that people vote for England staying together and not for
separation tomorrow," he said Wednesday.

