

Alex Salmond, who hopes to lead Scotland's parliament in
Edinburgh if the nationalists win the most seats in Thursday's
election, is well-known for his love of horse-racing.


Like Britain's former foreign secretary Robin Cook, a fellow
Scot, the portly 52 -year-old had a weekly column in a Scottish
newspaper. He has also appeared as a pundit on television racing
programmes.


But whether punters -- and opposition parties -- are prepared to
take a gamble on whether the Scottish National Party (SNP) leader
will pilot the country to a possible split from England and Wales
remains to be seen.


Alexander Elliot Anderson Salmond was born on December 31, 1954
in Linlithgow, 20 miles (30 kilometres) west of Edinburgh, going
on to study economics and history at St Andrews University.


After work at the Scottish agriculture and fisheries department
as an economist, he worked for the Royal Bank of Scotland in
various roles, including as an oil economist, and wrote
extensively on economics, fishing and energy.


His involvement in the SNP dates from his student days in 1973 at
a time of renewed interest in devolving some government powers to
Edinburgh.


In 1979, Salmond was prominent among socialist republicans within
the SNP and was briefly expelled.


But he recovered to be elected representative for Banff and
Buchan, north-east Scotland, in the British parliament in 1987,
the same year he became SNP deputy leader. He has held the seat
ever since.


In London, Salmond was excluded from the chamber for a week for
interrupting a Budget speech in 1988 in protest at income tax
rates cuts and the introduction of the poll tax property charge
in Scotland.


Salmond took the SNP into the 1990s as leader, transforming it
from a reactionary movement to a more mainstream political party
by the time Tony Blair's Labour swept to power in the 1997
general election.


Soon after, he was an active participant in the cross-party
campaign for devolution, despite still being fully committed to
an independent Scotland.


After the overwhelming vote in favour of a Scottish Parliament
with tax-varying powers in 1997, Salmond was elected to Edinburgh
as member for Banff and Buchan in 1999, only to stand down as
party leader in 2000.


The following year he left Edinburgh altogether to lead SNP
lawmakers in the London parliament, leaving day-to-day affairs
north of the border with England to his deputy Nicola Sturgeon.


In the capital he became one of the most vocal critics of the
Iraq war, later supporting attempts by Welsh nationalists to
impeach Blair and explicitly stating that the prime minister had
lied to parliament and the people.


In 2004, he was re-elected SNP leader and returned to the London
parliament in the 2005 general election, but made clear he wanted
to run for the Scottish parliament in 2007.


He is standing in the single member Gordon constituency, held by
Liberal Democrat Nora Radcliffe, where the SNP was third in 2003.
If that fails he has a potential safety net on the north-east
Scotland party list.


Often seen by critics as smug, the man sometimes called "Smart
Alex" is apparently a turn-off for women voters, and seen as
untrustworthy but also viewed as a sharp and effective debater
and a smart tactician.


His quick wit and sharp one-liners have made him a regular on
television quiz shows but his lack of punctuality is notorious,
making a mockery of the SNP election slogan: "It's Time."


Salmond is married to Moira, who is 17 years his senior and whom
he met in his early 20s while a civil servant.

