

Reigning champions Sweden booked their place in the world
icehockey championship's knockout stage with a 5-2 win over
neighbours Denmark in the Group E Scandinavian derby here on
Thursday.


Denmark drew first blood as their striker Morten Madsen netted
the opener 2:27 into the match. Four minutes later Peter Regin
made it 2-0 for the Danes on powerplay.


The Swedes were obviously saving their strength but levelled
before the first intermission converting two of their powerplay
attempts into goals through Kenny Johnsson and Johan Akerman.


In the second Johan Davidsson netted his fifth goal of the event
to lift Sweden 3-2 up and clinch the lead in the tournament's
scorers contest with 11 points.


Sweden defender Magnus Johansson added his goal at 57:23, while
Davidsson finalised the scoring with just seven seconds remaining
with his second of the match.


In Thursday's other Group E match Finland experienced few
troubles against Switzerland earning a 2-0 win.


The Swiss squad, who needed points to clinch a place in the
quarter-finals, started aggressively seeking for an opening goal
but to no avail lacking accuracy in front of the Finns' net.


Finland defended stoutly, peppering the Swiss goalie Jonas Hiller
with long- range shots but also missed all of their chances
before the second intermission.


It was Chicago Blackhawks forward Tuomo Ruutu, who scored the
opening goal 11:37 into the third period sweeping in a rebound
from Antti Mietinen's shot when Switzerland were shorthanded.


Swiss coach Ralph Krueger substituted his goalie with the sixth
field player but only to allow Ville Peltonen to score an empty-
netter with 14sec remaining to secure Finland's win.


Meanwhile, Germany, who won promotion to the elite division last
year, defeated 2-0 last year's silver medalists Czech Republic in
their qualifying Group F clash.


Michael Hackert put Germany 1-0 up scoring with just 10 seconds
before the first break.


After a goalless second period Michael Wolf made it 2-0 for
Germany with 1:11 to go to secure his side's well-deserved win.


The United States, who won their last world crown in 1960 at
Squaw Valley Olympics, outscored 4-2 the 2002 champions Slovakia
in the other Group F clash.


Carolina Hurricanes' defender Andrew Hutchinson put the US team
into the lead 8:17 into the match, firing in with a powerful
blue-line slap shot.


St Louis Blues striker David Bakes made it 2-0 for the United
States at 12:27 with a shorthanded goal beating Slovakia's
defence on a breakaway before Slovakia's blueliner Zdeno Chara
reduced the arrears just 40 sec later.


Phil Kessel, who is also playing with Boston Bruins, restored USA
two-goal advantage 4:52 into the second period, while his club
teammate Brandon Bochenski netted Americans' fourth at 32:37 on
powerplay.


Minnesota Wild striker Marian Gaborik scored Slovakia's second at
51:21 but failed to save the day for his squad.

