

A Greek court dismissed on Thursday the appeal of radical
November 17 group leader Alexander Giotopoulos against his 2003
conviction for inspiring the organisation's deadly attacks.


It also confirmed the sentences of 12 others condemned for their
part in a series of assassinations of prominent Greek and foreign
targets between 1975 and 2000.


The court, which will rule in a few days if it is upholding the
life sentence handed down against Giotopoulos, 63, issued its
verdict after 18 months of hearings by five judges.


Giotopoulos, who fought the 1967-74 military dictatorship known
as the colonels' regime, claimed he was victim of a "US and
British plot". He said he would appeal the verdict at the
European Court of Human Rights.


The former economics teacher was considered the brains behind the
group which acquired notoriety for the killings of several
Americans, including the 1975 assassination of the CIA station
chief in Athens, Richard Welch.


It was also behind the 2000 murder of Britain's military attache
Stephen Saunders.


The group also claimed the lives of several prominent Greeks
including that of conservative deputy Pavlos Bakoyannis, whose
children were present in court and broke down in tears as the
verdict was read out.


Several of the defendents shouted: "This verdict will be your
condemnation" as the president of the court, Dionyssis Vertelis,
spent an hour reading the court's decision.


Among those whose previous convictions were upheld was was
Dimitris Koufontinas, the group's operations chief. A former
beekeeper and only member to admit his role in the group's
activities, he was given 13 life sentences for his part in the
group's crimes in the 2003 trial.


Niko Papanastassiou and Pavlos Serifis, believed to be November
17 founding members, had their guilty verdicts overturned because
the delay in bringing them to trial had exceeded the statute of
limitations.


Another two people, including Angeliki Sotiropoulou, the only
woman in the group, had their orginal not guilty verdicts upheld
under appeal from the public prosecutor's office.


November 17 was named after a student uprising against Greece's
US-backed military junta in 1973.


The Greek authorities closed in on the group after 2002 when a
bomb accidentally blew up in the hands of one of its two hitmen,
Savvas Ziros. He and his brother, Christodoulos, sons of an
Orthodox priest also had their long prison sentences confirmed by
the appeals court.

