

Bad weather again plagued the second round robin series of the
Louis Vuitton Cup in Valencia on Thursday as thunder and
lightning off the Spanish eastern seaboard forced action to be
postponed for the day.


Although the high winds which have also hit the event, the winner
of which will face defending champion Alinghi in the America's
Cup next month, consisted of a light gradient breeze from the
south the rain ensured racing could not proceed.


That means Friday will see flights five and six on one double
session, weather permitting.


In the absence of racing action Desafio Espanol launched a
protest which the jury were considering late Thursday against
Mascalzone Latino for an alleged misuse of their backstay
rigging.


Under the competition rules, once the stays have been set pre-
race they must remain untouched for the duration.


Desafio say they have seen video evidence of tampering with the
backstay during competition and the result of a protest hearing
was due to come ahead of Friday's resumption when leaders BMW
Oracle Racing are due to go up against Luna Rossa Challenge in a
battle of the form teams to date.


Hosts Desafio were to meet Emirates Team New Zealand in an
encounter of two teams who also look bound for the semi-finals
later this month.


Bottom of the heap China Team, looking to garner as much
experience from the event as they can although qualification is a
lost cause, were to take on South Africa's Team Shosholoza, who
are currently three wins adrift of Desafio with their hopes of
advancing fading fast.


Also Friday, struggling United Internet Team Germany were to face
Sweden's Victory Challenge, pushing hard on Desafio's heels, with
Italy's Mascalzone battling compatriots +39 Challenge.


French also-rans Areva Challenge had a bye for flight five before
seeking to derail Luna Rossa Challenge's headlong rush to the
last four.


The remaining line-up for flight six pitted Mascalzone against
United Internet Team Germany, Victory Challenge against +39
Challenge, Desafio against China Team and Emirates Team New
Zealand against Team Shosholoza with BMW Oracle enjoying a bye.


Earlier Thursday, the event welcomed its one millionth visitor to
the port, organisers handing a special certificate to local
inhabitant Carolina Baixauli.


Tuesday saw a day record crowd of 68,000 descend on Valencia's
purpose built America's Cup marina.

