

Australian Robbie McEwen of Predictor-Lotto on Thursday won the
second stage of the Tour de Romandie in a sprint finish which was
marred by a fall in the final yards of the race.


Italian Paolo Savoldelli escaped unscathed to retain the leader's
yellow jersey after Colombian Leonardo Duque took a tumble in the
last 150 metres, bringing down several riders in the bunched pack
including Briton David Millar.


Slovenian Borut Bozic was second, followed by Italian Enrico
Gasparotto.


"In the sprint I got into a good position. And I'm really happy
because it's my only chance to win a stage here," McEwen said
after the 166.9km stage through the plateau and soft hills of
western Switzerland.


"I felt bad all day, I really didn't get a good feeling," said
the Australian, who hinted that Saturday's crunch mountain stage
could prove to be his making.


McEwen said he planned to make it through to "Saturday and see
how far I get, because it's not really something for me."


New Zealanders Julian Dean and Gregory Henderson narrowly missed
the podium in fourth and sixth place. Last year's Romandie
winner, Cadel Evans of Australia, remained just 14 seconds adrift
in the overall standings.


France's Nicolas Crosbie led a lone break for most of the race,
opening up a nine minute lead before the hilly final 40 km took
their toll on his legs.


The Milram and Euskaltel teams took turns to drive the main
peloton, joined by the yellow jersey's Astana team in the closing
miles.


The peloton rejoined Crosbie with just 17 km to go and stifled
any other adventures, but stretched out and broke up into two
groups as the pace accelerated in the final straight into Lucens.


French rider Sandy Casar, fifth in the overall standings and
rated as an outside chance for the six-day Tour de Romandie, also
showed signs of pushing the pace.


"This is a first test ahead of the Tour de France because I have
done much mountain riding this year," Casar said.


"There's always something to play for. I think the leaders
haven't shown themselves yet," he added.


About two dozen riders in the leading group were credited with
the same time as McEwen after the crash briefly blocked the path
to the finishing line.

