

US and other officials who attended talks with Russia Thursday on
a plan to grant limited independence to Kosovo believe Moscow's
outspoken opposition to the proposal is "not insurmountable," a
senior US official said.


US Under Secretary of State Nicholas Burns, who attended the
meeting of the Kosovo Contact Group in London, reported back that
the plan drawn up by UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari would soon
go to the UN Security Council in the form of a resolution, the
official said.


"I think that's indicative of the fact that we do think that
differences or concerns that the Russians have can be bridged,"
said the official, who passed on Burns' account of the Contact
Group meeting on condition he not be identified.


"The Russians continue to have concerns about this, but I do
think (Burns) believes and others believe that those concerns are
not insurmountable and that we can in fact work and move
forward," the official said.


Russian officials have threatened to use Moscow's veto power on
the Security Council to block the Ahtisaari plan, which would
grant Kosovo "supervised independence" from Serbia.


Serbia fiercely opposes the breakaway of Kosovo and has pushed an
alternative plan for "supervised autonomy" in the ethnic-Albanian
majority province, a proposal backed by Belgrade's close allies
in Moscow.


Russia has said that allowing Kosovo independence would encourage
separatists in other areas, notably its own restive Caucasus
region.


The US official did not elaborate on what compromises, if any,
might be necessary to prevent a Russian veto of the Ahtisaari
plan.


Kosovo's Albanians, who make up some 90 percent of the province's
population, have threatened to unilaterally declare independence
if Ahtisaari's plan is not adopted by the Security Council this
month.


State Department deputy spokesman Tom Casey said the issue was
expected to figure in talks between Secretary of State
Condoleezza Rice and Russian officials in Moscow in mid-May.


The Kosovo Contact group comprises Britain, France, Germany,
Italy, Russia and United States. Senior diplomats from the six
governments met Thursday at the Foreign Office in London.


Casey said that other than Russia, there was "great unity" among
the other governments at the meeting on the need to press ahead
quickly with Ahtisaari's plan.


Kosovo has been under United Nations administration since 1999,
after NATO bombing helped to drive out Serbian forces who were
waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanians.

