

Sudan faces the risk of further sanctions and isolation after
unequivocally ruling out any cooperation with the International
Criminal Court over Darfur, analysts warned on Thursday.


The Hague-based court on Wednesday issued its first arrest
warrants over the Darfur conflict in a bid to bring two Sudanese
to trial on counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity.


But Khartoum swiftly rejected the ICC's jurisdiction, and made it
clear it would not hand over minister of state for humanitarian
affairs Ahmed Haroun and Janjaweed militia leader Ali Kosheib.


"The government should have had the wisdom to bend to the will of
the ICC. Now it will have to face grave consequences -- the issue
will move from being a simple demand for the suspects to be
handed over to a possible confrontation with the (UN) Security
Council," said Sudanese professor of international law Sheikh
Eddin Shiddo.


He said that if the Security Council becomes involved -- which is
more than likely -- it could go as far as imposing economic
sanctions or even using force under Chapter Seven of the UN
Charter.


This would increase the pressure on Khartoum, which is suspected
by more than one Western government of dragging its feet on the
deployment of a robust international peacekeeping force in
Darfur, the western Sudanese region embroiled in civil conflict.


Some Sudanese press analysts have questioned the government
position, which is to reject any collaboration with the ICC and
not attempt to use legal mechanisms to contest the charges, which
were made at the end of February.


They say the government should have consulted international
lawyers with a view to contesting the ICC allegations.


Khartoum has instead stuck to a position of principle that as
Sudan did not accept the establishment of the ICC, the court had
no jurisdiction over its citizens.


The authorities have also stressed that Sudanese justice is both
independent and competent enough to try those suspected of
committing abuses in Darfur.


Such a position is wrong, according to analyst Saleh Mahmud, a
lawyer and communist member of parliament. He believes that the
government "has failed to organise credible trials for those
suspected of being behind crimes in Darfur."


Mahmud said the ICC issued the arrest warrants because "Sudanese
justice has not shown a willingness to judge" officials for
abuses in Darfur, where the United Nations says civil war has
killed some 200,000 people and two million have been forced to
flee their homes since the conflict began in 2003.


Sudan says that only 9,000 have died.


Janjaweed leader Kosheib was detained last year but the opening
of his trial was postponed indefinitely, while Haroun was
exonerated by an official Sudanese commission of inquiry that
investigated his time as deputy interior minister in charge of
Darfur.


Haroun and Kosheib face a long list of 42 and 50 charges of
crimes against humanity and war crimes respectively.


In ICC documents released on Wednesday the judges said there were
"reasonable grounds" to conclude that the pair was "criminally
responsible" for crimes including torture, mass rape and the
forced displacement of entire villages during a series of attacks
in western Darfur in 2003 and 2004.


As a foretaste of the pressures Sudan risks exposing itself to,
both the United States and France have called on Khartoum to
cooperate with the ICC, whose chief prosecutor has said the two
accused will be brought to justice.


"These two will have to face justice, they will be in the dock,
in two months or two years... they know that," ICC chief
prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo told AFP on Wednesday after the
warrants were issued.


Sudanese Justice Minister Mohammed Ali al-Mardhi said the ICC
move was political and further evidence that the court was being
used by the West to "pressure Sudan" into accepting an
international force in Darfur.


The international community has been urging Khartoum to accept a
robust UN peacekeeping force to prop up the embattled African
Union contingent which has been deployed in Darfur since 2004.


Rights organisations Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch
have underlined the necessity of Sudan cooperating with the ICC,
which has been charged by the United Nations with investigating
allegations of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur.

