

A British soldier was killed and an Australian wounded in attacks
in Afghanistan Thursday that also left two children hurt, while a
bomb in Kabul wounded 25 Afghan soldiers and killed their driver.


The Briton was killed in a battle that erupted after Taliban
attacked soldiers at a checkpoint near a military base in the
southern province of Helmand, the British Ministry of Defence
(MoD) said.


Up to 10 fighters attacked with small arms fire, which the
soldiers returned. The Taliban later used rocket-propelled
grenades.


Two Dutch F16 fighter jets were then called in and a 500 pound
(225 kilogram) bomb was dropped on the Taliban firing position.


The soldier was shot early on in the battle and evacuated to
receive medical treatment but died later, the MoD said.


The death brings to 54 the number of British troops killed in
Afghanistan since the hardline Taliban were ousted from power in
late 2001.


Britain has pledged an extra 1,400 troops for Afghanistan, who
are due to arrive within weeks, taking the country's contingent
in the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) led by NATO
to 7,700.


Most are based in Helmand, where the Taliban have a strong
presence.


ISAF gave no details of the incident, saying only a soldier died
in an "engagement with enemy fighters."


In a separate incident, a suicide bomber blew himself up near an
ISAF convoy in the southern province of Uruzgan, the force said.


"One ISAF soldier and two Afghans received minor injuries," a
spokesman said.


The provincial police chief, Mohammad Qassim, said two children
were hurt in the attack. The Australian Department of Defence
said one of its soldiers was slightly wounded.


Denmark's armed forces said Thursday they had suffered their
first combat loss in Afghanistan after a soldier who was
seriously injured last weekend died in a Copenhagen hospital.


The victim was shot in the throat when rebels attacked his unit
in Helmand as it headed to join a NATO operation against the
Taliban.


ISAF includes about 37,000 soldiers from 37 countries. It works
alongside a separate US-led coalition of about 14,000 troops.


In another Taliban attack, a bomb hidden in a cart was remotely
detonated to hit a bus carrying Afghan soldiers to work in the
capital early Thursday.


The driver was killed and 22 soldiers and three civilians were
wounded, the defence ministry said. A Taliban spokesman,
Zabihullah Mujahid, said the extremist movement had carried out
the attack.


Violence linked to the Taliban-led insurgency has risen steadily
over the past years. More than 4,000 people were killed last
year, most of them rebels, and more than 1,000 have died so far
this year.


A Spanish military commander said in a newspaper interview
Thursday Spain should send reinforcements to help tackle growing
violence in the west of the country, which has previously been
relatively quiet.


"The greater the military presence, the easier it will be to
guarantee security," Colonel Miguel Garcia de las Hijas, chief of
general staff of ISAF in western Afghanistan, told El Pais.


A major operation in the western province of Herat at the
weekend, involving US Special Forces and Afghan soldiers, killed
about 50 civilians, according to two reports by Afghan
delegations and one from the United Nations.

