

The UN special envoy on Kosovo insisted Thursday that his plan
for supervised independence was the only way forward for the
province and was adamant that strong Russian opposition could be
overcome.


Martti Ahtisaari spoke as diplomats from the Kosovo Contact Group
of countries met in Britain's Foreign Office to discuss the next
steps forward on plans for the province to declare independence
from Serbia.


The former Finnish president has drawn up a proposal to hand
Kosovo's increasingly impatient ethnic Albanian majority
internationally supervised independence, giving the province its
own constitution, flag and anthem.


However, Russia has rejected his plans as a violation of Serbia's
territorial integrity -- something which threatens to scupper
progress in securing an agreement at the United Nations Security
Council.


Russia, along with Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the United
States, is part of the contact group -- but the Foreign Office
was tight-lipped about whether Moscow's officials remained
trenchantly opposed.


"This is the only possible solution if we want to solve the
Kosovo problem," Ahtisaari stressed to reporters.


"I would find it extremely difficult to think that today's Russia
would like to send a message to the world, by opposing the
implementation of the plan in the Security Council, that any
dictator like Slobodan Milosevic can deal with their citizens as
he or she likes and hide behind sovereignty."


Kosovo has been under United Nations administration since 1999,
after NATO bombing helped to drive out Serbian forces who were
waging a brutal crackdown against ethnic Albanians.


His deputy Albert Rohan remained confident that unanimity could
be reached, insisting that independence was the "only game in
town" if the world wanted to avoid reaching a "messy" solution in
Kosovo.


The Austrian warned that without UN Security Council backing for
the plan, relations between the European Union and Russia would
be damaged, as the EU backs the plan and would take on many
responsibilities in Kosovo.


Moscow could not simply reject the plan without providing a
viable alternative, he said.

