

Sevilla's remarkable season continued on Thursday as Juande
Ramos's defending champions reached the final of the UEFA Cup at
the expense of Osasuna.


The English missed out on dominating the Champions League final
as AC Milan hijacked the party on Wednesday, but the Spanish made
no such mistakes in Europe's second competition as Espanyol
joined their countrymen in the May 16 final in Glasgow, ousting
Werder Bremen.


Sevilla, the holders, will feel confident for the final after
overcoming a 1-0 first leg deficit to master their Pamplonan
opponents in the return leg.


In fairness there could easily have been more to show for the
hosts than two goals from Brazilians Luis Fabiano and Renato.


They controlled the match from start to finish and showed their
class in coming through for a second successive final - they
destroyed English side Middlesbrough 4-0 in last season's final.


It means Sevilla's incredible bid to win the UEFA Cup, Spanish
league and Spanish Cup is still on.


They trail champions and leaders Barcelona by a single point in
the league and in the Cup they hold a 3-0 advantage over
Deportivo La Coruna ahead of their semi-final second leg, at
home.


Sevilla took the lead in very British fashion when a long punt
forward found the chest of Fabiano. His control was impressive
but what happened next owed its place more to a Sunday pub league
than the European platform.


Fabiano bulldozed his way through three weak tackles from
defenders, the ball ricocheting off everything in his path before
he cooly slotted home past Lopez Ricardo, formerly of Manchester
United, in the Osasuna goal.


That made it 1-0 on the night and 1-1 on aggregate - the tie
finely balanced.


Sevilla really should have had a two-goal lead at the break but
French forward Freddie Kanoute headed straight at Ricardo from
six yards out after Fabiano's presence caused havoc in the
Osasuna box.


Kanoute was presented with a free header but could get no power
or direction on it.


After the break Cameroon forward Pierre Webo could have restored
parity on the night but he blazed over the bar when well placed
from 20 yards out.


That proved a costly miss as Sevilla doubled their advantage as
Renato ran unchecked into the Osasuna box to meet a Daniel Alves
cross with an outstretched and supple leg, diverting the ball
past an astounded Ricardo, who was left rooted to the spot.


That made it 2-0 on the night and gave Sevilla the lead over two
legs but a goal from Osasuna would have been enough to sneak
through to the final on the away goals rule.


That so nearly arrived as Webo sent a header against the post
just minutes after the second goal but Sevilla were not to be
denied a chance at repeating last year's success.

