

The countries encircling the Mediterranean Sea launched a four-
year study of climate change Thursday, the region's first large-
scale analysis of the impact of global warming and how to cope
with it.


The project, which unites more than sixty research institutes
from Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, aims to provide
recommendations on how to confront the consequences of climate
change.


These range from water shortages and increased pollution to
extreme weather events, co-director Antonio Navarra told AFP
during the group's inaugural meeting.


"We are looking at major impacts on the Mediterranean region that
could unleash chain events over a wide range of areas including
agriculture, water management, energy production and tourism,"
said Navarra, who also heads the National Institute of Geophysics
and Volcanology in Bologna.


One of the project's innovations is to take methods that have
been used at a global level and to apply them regionally.


"All of these problems have been analysed by the IPCC (the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change), but we hope to fill a
gap because the Mediterranean area has been relatively
understudied," he explained.


The IPCC, the United Nation's top authority on climate change, is
due to issue a major report in Bangkok Friday on the tools
availble for mitigating the effects of global warming.


Two reports released earlier this year -- one on the extent of
climate change and another on its impacts -- predicted dire
consequences over the next century if greenhouse gas emissions
driving temperature increases were not held in check.


Co-chair Laurence Tubiana said that another innovation of the
Mediterranean study was that from the outset, when the research
agendas were being defined, it was bringing together hundreds of
scientists from dozens of disciplines -- including the social
sciences.


"We need to do more than just talk to each other, we need to
integrate the disciplines," something that was rarely done, she
said. "It will not be easy. People have tried before and failed."


Tubiana is also director of France's Institute for Sustainable
Development and International Relations.


The European Union-funded Climate Change and Impact Research: the
Mediterranean Environment -- dubbed CIRCE -- has a ten-million-
euro budget and is broken up into 13 research areas, each drawing
on experts from across the region.

