

US delegates plan to lock horns with China and Japan over
protecting tigers and whales, while lobbying to remove bobcats
from endangered lists next month, witnesses told Congress
Thursday.


"China is seriously considering lifting its domestic ban on trade
in tiger parts," said Todd Willins, who will head the US
delegation to the meeting of the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species, to be held in The Hague June 3-15.


"Authorizing such trade would create a legal market for the tiger
farms that already exist in China, but more importantly, would
provide a cover for poached tiger products to enter the market,"
Willins told legislators.


The United States also plans to take a hard line on harvest of
African elephant tusks and on Japan's proposal that CITES
encourage a foreshortening of International Whaling Commission
management, he said.


Another US concern is removal of the bobcat from the CITES
protection lists, arguing that time and money spent complying
with CITES could be better used to help species that need it.


"The bobcat is the most widely distributed native cat in North
America," Willins said, noting that a million could be found in
the United States alone.


The bobcat was listed 30 years ago to help enforcement because of
its similar appearance to other lynxes, he said.


"Skins are almost always auctioned as dry skins with fur out and
usually complete, including a bobcat's distinguishing features on
the ears and tail," he said.


"Bobcats should not present a look-alike problem to CITES
parties," he told the House Committee on Natural Resources
Subcommittee on Fisheries, Wildlife and Oceans.


The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species was
signed in Washington in 1975 and has 171 member nations who
enforce CITES restrictions on trade in flora and fauna.


The program is administered through a secretariat at the UN
Environment Program in Switzerland.


Representatives will meet in The Hague for the 14th Conference of
the Parties in June to allow countries to amend rules aimed at
defining and protecting endangered species.


Some 530 animal and 300 plant species enjoy complete bans on
trade under CITES, while trade of another 4,460 animal and 28,000
plants is restricted.

