

A top Canadian intelligence officer said Thursday he had warned
federal police days before the 1985 Air India bombing that killed
329 people that the airline would be attacked.


Ontario Lieutenant Governor James Bartleman, who was director
general of External Affairs' intelligence analysis bureau in
1985, testified at a public inquiry that intelligence reports
warned of the blast five days before it happened.


"The week of the bombing ... I was going through the daily
intercept package from CSE (the Canadian Security Establishment)
and I saw in there a document which indicated that Air India
would be targeted that weekend," he said.


"It was raw, unevaluated information," Bartleman said.


"There had been so many alarms raised in previous years about
potential attacks, that I suppose it would be easy for someone to
say it was just another case of 'crying wolf.'


"But I took it seriously," he said.


Bartleman said he immediately advised federal police, who claimed
to be already aware of the specific threat.


"The next thing in my memory was the downing of the aircraft," he
said.


The blast killed 329 passengers and crew members, including 280
Canadians, off the coast of Ireland in the world's worst airline
attack prior to the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United
States.


Prosecutors blamed radical orthodox Sikh immigrants to Canada,
saying the bombing was payback for the Indian government's 1984
army attack on the Sikhs' Golden Temple.


But the only person jailed over the airline attack was bomb-maker
Inderjit Singh Reyat, who now faces perjury charges over his
testimony at the trial of two men acquitted in the plot in 2005.


The alleged mastermind of the plot, Talwinder Singh Parmar, was
killed in a police shootout in India in 1992.


Since the bombing, Canadian governments have insisted the threat
was not clear. But the public inquiry has heard other warnings
came from two police informers and several intelligence
intercepts.


Agents of the fledgling Canadian Security Intelligence Agency
even followed plot leader Parmar and Reyat to a test bombing on
Vancouver Island, but mistook it for a rifle shot, suggesting
they might be engaged in firearms training.


Canadian authorities' inability to stop the June 1985 bombing
plot despite the warning signals and the tailing of the suspects
has been a continual frustration for the victims' families.

