

German striker Miroslav Klose capped a week to forget on Thursday
as his first- half dismissal did little to help 10-man Werder
Bremen in their 2-1 UEFA Cup semi-final defeat to Espanyol.


Winning the semi-final 5-1 on aggregate, the Barcelona-based
Espanyol resumed the complete control they had enjoyed in the
first leg and will contest the final in Glasgow, Scotland, on May
16 against fellow Spaniards FC Sevilla.


Bremen, faced with a 3-0 deficit to make up from their first-leg
trouncing, got off to a flying start with a goal after just four
minutes, but went down to 10-men when Klose was shown two yellow
cards in just 18 first-half minutes.


The Germans started well and pulled back a goal when striker Hugo
Almeida beat Spanish goal-keeper Gorka Iraizoz with a left-footed
shot after just four minutes.


But the dream start soon turned into a nightmare night for his
striking partner Klose, who has had a woeful week after his side
added Sunday's 3-2 Bundesliga defeat at Arminia Bielefeld to the
3-0 drubbing in Spain a week ago.


Having publicly apologised to his club and its fans for a secret
transfer meeting with Bayern Munich officials late last week with
15 million euros rumoured to be on offer, the 28-year-old was
sent off after just twenty minutes.


The top-scorer at last year's World Cup announced on Wednesday he
will be staying at Werder next season despite Bayern Munich's
best efforts, but he did little to endear himself to his home
fans.


Klose was booked for a foul after just two minutes and was handed
a second in harsh circumstances for a hand-ball as his side went
down a men, but still held the 1-0 lead at the break.


Espanyol famously let a 3-0 first-leg lead slip in the 1988 UEFA
Cup final against Bayer Leverkusen, when they lost the return-leg
3-0 and were beaten on penalties, but there was to be no repeat
of that dramatic night.


The Spaniards were back on level terms soon after the interval
when striker Ferran Corominas added to his first-leg goal with a
left-footed shot after 50 minutes.


And the Spanish made it 2-1 on the night when defender Jesus
Maria Lacruz scored with a header after 62 minutes to seal the
win.

