

A European court condemned Georgia on Thursday for failing to
punish Orthodox extremists who attacked a group of Jehovah's
Witnesses, then had their film of the assault broadcast on
television.


The attack on the Gldani Congregation of Witnesses was led by
defrocked Orthodox priest Basil Mkalavishvili, known as Father
Basil, in October 1999 in Tblisi, said a statement issued by the
European Court of Human Rights.


He and his supporters burst into the Witnesses' meeting room,
shouting and waving iron crosses and trapped about 60 of the
Witnesses.


"(T)he Jehovah's Witnesses, including women and children, were
violently assaulted by the attackers, who punched and kicked
them, and struck them with sticks and iron crosses," the
statement continued.


"(S)ome of the women were pulled to the ground by their hair,
pushed down staircases or whipped with belts. A member of the
Congregation also had his head shaved while those holding him in
place recited a prayer."


The Witnesses' bibles, literature and religious symbols, was
burnt on a bonfire, the statement added. "The attack was filmed
by one Father Basil's supporters."


When those who had fled the scene alerted the police, one officer
told them he would have given them an even worse time.


National television channels broadcast the film of the attack and
the burning of the bibles. Father Basil was interviewed standing
in front of the bonfire, expressing his satisfaction with the
attack.


Although 16 people were hospitalised and another 44 gave
statements, despite the video evidence and witnesses'
identification of their assailants, nobody was ever successfully
prosecuted for the attack, said the court's statement.


"From October, 1999 to November, 2002, 138 violent attacks were
carried out against the Jehovah's Witnesses and 784 complaints
were lodged with the Georgian authorities," it continued.


"No careful and serious investigation was carried out into any of
those complaints."


The court's seven judges found Georgia guilty of violating four
articles of the European Convention of Human Rights.

