

Defending champion Kim Clijsters slumped to an embarrassing 7-6
(7/3), 6-3 defeat at the hands of Ukraine's Julia Vakulenko in
the second round of the J and S Cup in Warsaw on Thursday.


Second seeded Clijsters, who has planned no further tournaments
until Eastbourne immediately before Wimbledon, is playing a
reduced schedule as she prepares for her July wedding to American
Brian Lynch.


With clay never her favourite surface, despite her advance to the
French Open final in 2003, Clijsters looked ill at ease against
the 61st-ranked qualifier.


Vakulenko pressured well with her serve and Clijsters was never
allowed to settle.


"I felt like I was not playing any worse than over the last few
years when I've started my claycourt season," said Clijsters.


"The big difference was the serve. She hit a lot of aces and good
second serves and she kept me on my back foot a little bit.


"I was always at a bit of a disadvantage going into the rally
already and didn't really get the chance to move her around too
much. She hit really aggressively and kept me defending all the
time.


"A couple of times I tried to step into the return a little bit
and be more aggressive, but I felt she was stepping in even more
and she went for her shots a lot. She was really going for it and
hitting a lot of lines."


While Clijsters fell, fellow Belgian and number one seed Justine
Henin swept aside struggling German Anna-Lena Groenefeld 6-1,
6-2.


Henin jumped to a 4-0 lead against an opponent who had earned
just two victories this season, and wrapped up the opening set
with her third break of serve when Groenefeld made a forehand
error.


The second set was far more competitive, despite Henin breaking
for a 2-0 lead.


Groenefeld immediately held a point to break back but netted a
forehand, and although the remaining games were competitive
Groenefeld was unable to rescue the match and eventually conceded
with a double-fault.


Venus Williams also resisted a strong second set challenge to
overcome seventh seeded Russian Elena Dementieva 6-1, 7-6 (7/4).


While the unseeded American has been building up an impressive
number of victories this season, Dementieva is returning after an
eight week break after suffering a stress fracture to her ribs.


"It was a very tough draw to play Venus in the second round,"
said the Russian.


"At the beginning it was very tough to get into the game because
she was so powerful and aggressive. It took me a few games to get
into the rhythm so I'd be able to have a long rally and go to
attack her as well."


After being overwhelmed in the first set, Dementieva pushed
Williams all the way in the second. The American broke four times
but was never able to consolidate her lead and the players
engaged in some furious baseline rallies.


Although Williams served for victory at 5-4 and 6-5, she was
taken to a tiebreak before closing out the match in just under
two hours.


"I was moving forward a lot more in the first set," said
Williams.


"In the second I caught a lot more behind the baseline, and I
think she also improved her game too."


Fourth seeded serb Jelena Jankovic also advanced, comfortably
beating Russia's Elena Vesnina 6-2, 7-5.

