

Relations between the Vatican and Italy on social issues have
taken a turn for the worse just a week before a giant pro-family
demonstration is set to take place in Rome.


"We have entered a confrontation that worries everyone," an
editorialist of the daily Corriere della Sera said Thursday after
Pope Benedict XVI came under harsh criticism for his stance on
euthanasia during a traditional May Day concert.


"The pope said that he doesn't believe in the theory of
evolution. I agree, the Church has not evolved," musician and
comedian Andrea Rivera told a throng of some 400,000 people at
Tuesday's concert, broadcast live over Italian television.


He criticised the Catholic Church for denying a religious funeral
to Piergiorgio Welby, a muscular dystrophy sufferer and right-to-
die campaigner who ended his life in December by having a doctor
remove him from his artificial respirator.


The Vatican reacted with outrage to the criticism, saying that
"attacking the Church is terrorism."


"It is vile and terrorist to throw stones at the pope, this time
directly, while feeling protected by shouts of approval from an
easily excitable crowd," the Vatican mouthpiece, L'Osservatore
Romano, said Thursday.


Relations between Rome and the Holy See have grown increasingly
strained over issues ranging from euthanasia to gay rights since
Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi's centre-left government came
to power last year.


Benedict seizes every opportunity to defend the traditional
family and the right to life "from conception to natural death,"
and has been accused repeatedly of interfering, notably for his
opposition to a plan to grant legal status to gay couples in
Italy.


Organisers of next Friday's demonstration in defence of the
family hope for a turnout of up to a million people -- a show of
force they hope will ring the death knell for the legislation.


The secular left is meanwhile calling for a counter-
demonstration.


Columnist Stefano Folli told AFP Thursday: "What happened shows
an excess of nerves at the Vatican."


He added: "There's a segment of the Catholic Church that is
looking to create conditions for a conflict with secularists that
doesn't exist."


The Italian right backed the pope, while union leaders and
parties in the centre-left ruling coalition, which includes
Catholics, said the Osservatore Romano editorial was over the
top.


Only the far left openly defended Rivera, notably poet and Nobel
literature laureate Dario Fo.


"All this is crazy. These reactions are totally out of
proportion," he said, adding that satire is permissible against a
Church "on the defensive."


The row prompted Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi late
Wednesday to call for efforts to "defuse tensions" and Prodi to
appeal for "good sense."

