

The United Nations on Thursday posthumously awarded its annual
press freedom prize to Russian investigative journalist Anna
Politkovskaya, who was gunned down in October last year.


Her son, Ilya, attended a ceremony on her behalf to receive the
UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization's (UNESCO)
25,000 dollar Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize.


"I am proud to be here to receive this prize, in Colombia, on
behalf of my mother," he said during the ceremony which also
marked the United Nations' annual World Press Freedom Day.


"It is ironic because she should have been here herself, she who
wanted to tell only the truth and show the reality in my
country," he told an audience that included high-ranking
Colombian and foreign dignitaries.


He dedicated the award to all "independent Russian reporters."


The 48-year-old journalist, known for her prize-winning coverage
of atrocities during the war in Chechnya, was found shot dead in
the hallway of the building where she lived in the center of the
Russian capital in October.


She wrote for the bi-weekly newspaper Novaya Gazeta and won fame
at home and abroad for her persistent and often harrowing
reporting of atrocities by Russian forces and Chechen militias in
Chechnya, as well as corruption within the armed forces.


Her son earlier told the Colombian daily El Tiempo in an
interview: "I don't believe there was any direct state
participation in the organization of the crime (her killing) but
corruption could have facilitated her execution."


She was killed by three gunshots to the body and a fourth to the
head, and her murder sparked outrage internationally and locally
among press and rights activists who accused the Kremlin of being
behind the slaying.


"It has never been more dangerous to be a reporter than it is
today," UNESCO chief Koichiro Matsuura said.


The year 2006 was the bloodiest to date for the world's
journalists, with 150 unexplained assassinations and 100 others
threatened, attacked, or sequestered as a result of their work,
he said.


The Cano prize was created in 1997 and is named for the late
Colombian journalist Guillermo Cano, who was killed on the order
of druglords in 1986.

