

The diplomatic row between Estonia and Russia over the removal of
a Soviet monument in Tallinn showed little sign of easing
Thursday after Moscow hit out at pressure from Western blocs
backing the Baltic state.


Both the European Commission and NATO issued statements Thursday
expressing concern about the plight of Estonia's embassy staff
under siege by pro-Kremlin youths, and calling on Moscow to rein
them in.


"We're very happy that our partners in the EU and NATO have
expressed their clear support to us," Estonian Foreign Minister
Urmas Paet told a news conference after a cabinet meeting.


"Depending on how Russia reacts to this position, we will decide
whether any further measures are needed on the EU level against
Russia."


But Russia's representative to the Organisation for Security and
Cooperation in Europe, Alexei Borodavkin, attacked the attitude
of the European Union and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation.


"What happened in Estonia ... cannot fail to affect relations
between Russia and the European Union and the North Atlantic
alliance," he was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency.


Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told his German counterpart Frank-
Walter Steinmeier by telephone that backing for EU and NATO
member Estonia "contradicts European values and culture," said a
Russian foreign ministry statement.


The European Commission has urged Russia to end the blockade by
pro-Kremlin youth groups of Estonia's embassy in Moscow and said
it wants to send an EU delegation to discuss the issue with
Russian authorities.


NATO's statement said it was "deeply concerned by threats to the
physical safety of Estonian diplomatic staff, including the
ambassador, in Moscow, as well as intimidation at the Estonian
embassy."


The statement called for the "unacceptable" actions to be stopped
immediately. The row over the removal of the Soviet war memorial
from the centre of the Estonian capital should be resolved
through diplomatic channels, it added.


In a telephone call late Wednesday to Estonian President Toomas
Hendrik Ilves, NATO Secretary General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer also
pledged support for Estonia, a member of the military alliance
since 2004, and expressed concern about Russia's behaviour toward
its small neighbour.


"I hope a second round of measures is not needed, but we'll
continue monitoring the situation 24 hours a day," Paet said
Thursday.


The Baltic state was plunged into its worst diplomatic crisis
since independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 last week when
the authorities in Tallinn removed the memorial figure known as
the Bronze Soldier.


Hundreds of people, many of them Russian-speaking, rioted in
Tallinn on Thursday and Friday last week. Estonia accused
officials at the Russian embassy in Tallinn of fomenting the
violence.


On Wednesday the youths blockading the Moscow embassy tried to
attack the Estonian ambassador, and also damaged a car carrying
the Swedish ambassador.


After the clashes in Moscow, several European Union members and
the United States urged Russia to respect diplomatic conventions.


Paet said Thursday that Russia had "still not taken sufficient
measures to secure the safety of our embassy, as international
law requires."


Lavrov told him in a telephone conversation that the Russian
authorities were "taking all necessary measures so that the
actions of demonstrators... do not exceed the bounds of the law,"
the foreign ministry in Moscow said.


Lavrov also told Paet that Tallinn's actions had "led to
seriously negative consequences for Russian-Estonian relations."


In Tallinn, officials announced that Marina Kaljurand, the
Estonian ambassador to Moscow, would be leaving on a two-week
holiday on Thursday.


"There is no political or health reason for her vacation,"
foreign ministry official Matti Maasikas said in a statement.


Kaljurand had been scheduled to go on holiday at the end of
April, but delayed her leave period because of the events in
Moscow," said Maasikas.


The war memorial at the heart of the row with Moscow is seen by
Russians as a memorial to Red Army soldiers who died fighting
fascism. Estonians see it as a bitter reminder of 50 years of
Soviet occupation.


It has been re-erected in a Tallinn cemetery and the bodies of 12
Soviet soldiers buried beneath it exhumed.


Estonia was forcibly incorporated into the Soviet Union at the
end of World War II, only regaining independence in 1991 as the
USSR crumbled.

