

Nearly the entire US Senate has signed a letter to Chinese
President Hu Jintao asking him to step up pressure on the
government of Sudan to end the bloodshed in Darfur.


In an indication of the widespread concern in Congress over the
unending violence in Sudan's troubled west, the letter, signed by
96 of the 100 senators, called on Hu to prod Sudanese President
Omar al-Beshir to halt military operations throughout Darfur,
withdraw troops from the area and follow through on Khartoum's
agreement to accept a joint UN and African Union peacekeeping
force.


These steps were critical in enforcing a ceasefire, protecting
civilians, ensuring access to humanitarian aid and beginning
reconstruction and reconciliation in Darfur, the senators said.


"We must now work together as an international community; there
is no time left to wait," the senators told Hu.


"We therefore appeal to you today to use your influence in words
and in deeds to protect civilians," they said.


The Darfur conflict has caused 200,000 deaths and led to two
million people being displaced, according to the United Nations.
Sudan contests the figures, saying that only 9,000 have died.


China has been criticized for not using its clout as a veto-
wielding member of the UN Security Council and a top investor in
Sudan to force Khartoum to end the violence in Darfur, where
ethnic tensions erupted into a revolt in 2003.


China is also the leading customer for Sudanese oil and a key
supplier of military arms and equipment to the huge African
state.


The senators also urged Hu to review Beijing's recent decision to
provide an interest-free loan to build a palace for President
Beshir.


"We believe extending such a loan would clearly send the wrong
message to Khartoum," they said.


The United States and Britain have in recent weeks indicated that
their patience with Beshir is running out.


US President George W. Bush had said he was "looking at what
steps the international community can take to deny Sudan's
government the ability to fly its military aircraft over Darfur."


A reliable source told AFP recently US officials were considering
options including creating a no-fly zone like those that once
blanketed huge swathes of Saddam Hussein's Iraq, or even
destroying Sudanese government airplanes on the ground.

