

The White House and Democrats vowing to bring US troops home from
Iraq opened new talks Thursday on their bitter feud over the war,
deepened by President George W. Bush's veto of a withdrawal plan.


Democratic Senate Majority leader Harry Reid and his Republican
opposite Mitch McConnell met for 45 minutes with White House
chief of staff Joshua Bolten, aiming to forge a compromise over a
hundred billion dollar-plus bill funding the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan.


Reid said the talks took place in a "comfortable" atmosphere but
there was no indication of any breakthroughs, and he refused to
divulge details other than the scheduling of another meeting next
week.


"I thought it was a constructive meeting, the ball is in the
President's court," Reid said.


Bush vetoed the 124 billion dollar bill on Tuesday, in line with
his determination not to accept Democratic timelines included in
the same legislation calling for a withdrawal of most of the
146,000 US soldiers in Iraq to start by October 1.


Democratic leaders appear close to dropping the timelines for
now, to allow Bush to sign a bill and send funding to the troops,
before resuming battle with other defense spending bills due to
be debated within a few months.


House of Representatives Democratic leader Steny Hoyer said that
much as Democrats would like to compel a troop withdrawal, they
had to recognize that only Bush, as commander in chief, had the
power to order one.


"I don't think it is a question of backing down. It's a question
of recognizing reality," Hoyer told CNN.


Senior Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer said the party would not
lose sight of its goal of bringing troops home, even though Bush
had blocked their withdrawal timetable.


"We are not abandoning our heartfelt view that the mission needs
to change," Schumer said. "I believe the American people are with
us all the way."


At the White House, where Bush met key Congressional leaders on
Wednesday, spokesman Tony Snow stuck by an agreement not to
divulge developments in the new talks, but said Bush wanted a
deal forged as soon as possible.


"Everybody agreed to proceed not only in a spirit of getting
something done, but also doing so in an attitude of mutual
respect," Snow said.


Democrats are looking at the possibility of including binding
benchmarks for political progress by Iraq's government in the new
bill, which if not met could cost Baghdad millions of dollars in
non-military aid.


But Reid and House of Representatives leader Nancy Pelosi must
also assuage restive members of their party who are adamant
Congress has to force Bush to bring troops home.


Democrats said Thursday that the Iraqi government was not doing
enough to forge peace, a position also adopted by Admiral William
Fallon, commander of US forces in the Middle East.


"They are not moving, in my opinion, fast enough to support what
we are trying to do in the country," Fallon told the Senate Armed
Services Committee.

