

Mali's President Amadou Toumani Toure convincingly won last
weekend's presidential election according to official results
released on Thursday.


The preliminary official tally showed the former coup leader took
68.31 percent of the votes, despite the opposition crying foul.


Toure's victory has handed him a second and final five-year term
to run this impoverished nation.


His closest rival, speaker of parliment and former prime minister
Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, trailed well behind with 18.59 percent of
the ballots.


The opposition which has alleged cases of "gross" irregularities
has vowed to get the result nullified in the court.


Toure, who ousted dictator Moussa Traore in 1991, installed a
multi-party system before stepping aside in 1992. He later stood
for presidential elections and won easily in 2002.


The 58-year-old former general who is politically unaffiliated
enjoyed the backing of two large coalitions and a myriad of small
parties.


A total of eight candidates were vying for the top job in this
vast west African country sitting on the edge of the Sahara
desert.


Boubacar Sow, national director of the ministry of territorial
administration which organised the election, said only 36 percent
of some 6.8 million potential voters bothered to turn out at the
polling stations.


Close to 2.5 million Malians voted out of 6.88 million registered
voters. Of those who voted some 1.5 million cast in favour of
Toure while less than half a million showed their support for
Keita.


None of the other six hopefuls took 100,000 votes each.


Days before official results were out Toure's camp already
claimed unassailed victory, ruling out a second round.


But the opposition insists the election was fraught with
irregularities, citing multiple voting, voter intimidation,
unserialised ballot papers bearing no serial numbers or security
watermarks and alleging figures were tampered with.


Foreign observers, among them the regional bloc, the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the OIF
organisation of French speaking countries, declared the election
clean and fair, despite some incidents of concern.


The leading opposition Front for Democracy and the Republic
(FDR), a coalition of 16 parties which fielded four candidates,
including Ibrahim Keita, who came third in round one of the 2002
elections, has started preparations to take the matter to court.


"The conditions under which these elections were held render the
results null and void," Soumeylou Boubeye Maiga, one of the
losing candidates affiliated to the FDR, said.


"We are going to take to the constitutional court to get an
annulment and a re- rerun of the election," he said.


The four candidates in the opposition coalition had before the
elections  signed an electoral pact for the second round, a move
many observers believed was risky given the high chance of Toure
taking the vote.


Despite being the third largest gold-producer in Africa after
South Africa and Ghana, Mali is the world's third poorest
country, according to the United Nations.


Mali, which has a total population of 13.5 million, gained
independence from France in 1960, and was led by president Modibo
Keita until he was overthrown in 1968 by Traore, who ruled for 23
years.

