

Osama bin Laden, Pope Benedict XVI and Borat creator Sacha Baron
Cohen are among a packed and varied field chosen by Time Magazine
for this year's list of the world's 100 most influential people.


The fourth annual list, which is due to hit newsstands Friday,
omits US President George W. Bush for the first time but includes
Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Barack
Obama.


The "artists and entertainers" category includes Hollywood
heavyweights Martin Scorsese, Cate Blanchett and heart-throbs
Brad Pitt and Leonardo DiCaprio, along with fashion model Kate
Moss.


Pop sensation Justin Timberlake is named along with Senegalese
musician Youssou N'Dour, while former US vice president Al Gore's
shift to environmental campaigner sees him nominated in the
"scientists and thinkers" category.


The list, which is designed to recognize "the men and women whose
power, talent or moral example is transforming our world," does
not appear in any order or give the magazine's reasons why some
people were chosen over others.


The "leaders and revolutionaries" category features Queen
Elizabeth II, Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni -- in an entry
penned by US counterpart Condoleezza Rice -- and Rice herself,
appearing for a fourth year running.


California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger makes a showing next to
Raul Castro, the younger brother of Cuban leader Fidel Castro,
Indian Congress Party leader Sonia Gandhi and Chinese President
Hu Jintao.


Other politicians in the mix include German Chancellor Angela
Merkel, Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, US House
of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Liu Qi, head of the
2008 Beijing Olympics committee.


Besides Rice, US talk show host Oprah Winfrey is the only person
to have appeared all four years, featuring in the "heroes and
pioneers" section in an entry written by anti-apartheid
campaigner Nelson Mandela.


Other "heroes" include billionaire investor and philanthropist
Warren Buffett, rubbing shoulders with tennis champion Roger
Federer, footballer Thierry Henry and Chinese online activist
Zeng Jinyan.


Actor and director George Clooney, who has been campaigning to
raise awareness about the situation in the Sudanese region of
Darfur, is meanwhile named along with Parkinson's disease
sufferer and fellow actor Michael J. Fox.


British entrepreneur Richard Branson makes a show in the
"builders and titans" section along with Chad Hurley and Steve
Chen, the co-founders of video sharing website YouTube, and
luxury brand guru and LVMH boss Bernard Arnault.


Indian steel magnate Lakshmi Mittal, the world's fifth richest
man, also appears alongside Apple chief Steve Jobs.

