

The oldest pro-British paramilitary group in Northern Ireland
renounced violence Thursday, in the latest sign of progress
towards peace ahead of the revival of self-rule in Belfast next
week.


The Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF), a Protestant group whose
members support the union with Britain and oppose any move
towards a united Ireland, said it was putting its arms "beyond
reach" and stopping military training.


The statement came five days before the restoration of power-
sharing in Northern Ireland next Tuesday, led by Ian Paisley's
Protestant Democratic Unionists and Gerry Adams' Catholic Sinn
Fein.


"We have taken the above measures in an earnest attempt to
augment the return of accountable democracy to the people of
Northern Ireland," said Gusty Spence, 73, a convicted killer who
helped found the modern day UVF.


The Irish Republican Army, linked to Sinn Fein, declared an end
to its campaign of violence over two years ago and has
decommissioned its arsenal of weapons.


The UVF said it had informed the Independent International
Commission on Decommissioning (IICD), set up to monitor the
disarmament of paramilitary organisations, of its decision.


But the IICD said it was "concerned" by the UVF's plans to deal
with the issue of its arms independently, adding it wanted to
work with them to make sure weapons were destroyed for good.


Acknowledging "increasing community acceptance that the
mainstream republican offensive has ended," the UVF said it would
deactivate service units and stop recruiting as of midnight (2300
GMT) Thursday.


"We call on all violent dissidents to desist immediately and urge
all relevant governments and their security apparatus to deal
swiftly and efficiently with this threat," Spence said, reading
out a statement in Belfast.


British Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman welcomed
the announcement, but said ministers wanted to see "how today's
statement is translated into action."


Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern added the UVF should work with
the IICD "with a view to full decommissioning."


The UVF first declared a ceasefire almost 14 years ago but is
thought to have been responsible for several killings since then.


It is blamed for several hundred deaths during "The Troubles,"
which ran for three decades from the late 1960s, and is also
accused of still being involved in organised crime rackets.


In a further indication of the normalising of Northern Irish
politics, Paisley and Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness, who will
hold the top two posts in the new administration, met finance
minister Gordon Brown Thursday to discuss the size of Britain's
funding package for the province.


McGuinness, who will be Paisley's deputy, said that he and his
erstwhile enemy thought Brown's offer was "not up to scratch".


All sides will keep negotiating to address what McGuinness says
is a "legacy of underfunding".


Brown is currently offering 51 billion pounds (75 billion euros,
101 billion dollars) over the next 10 years.

