

The UN special envoy on Kosovo insisted Thursday that his plan
for supervised independence was the only way forward for the
province and was adamant that strong Russian opposition could be
overcome.


Martti Ahtisaari spoke as diplomats from the Kosovo Contact Group
of countries met in London to discuss the next steps forward on
his plans for the province to quit Serbia.


The former Finnish president proposes to allow Kosovo to have
internationally supervised independence, with NATO troops
providing security and the European Union economic assistance.


However, Russia has rejected his plans as a violation of Serbia's
territorial integrity -- threatening to scupper hopes of securing
full United Nations Security Council backing in the coming weeks.


Russia, along with Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the United
States, is part of the contact group -- but Britain's Foreign
Office, the host, was tight- lipped about whether Moscow's
officials remained trenchantly opposed.


"This is the only possible solution if we want to solve the
Kosovo problem," Ahtisaari stressed to reporters in London.


"I would find it extremely difficult to think that today's Russia
would like to send a message to the world, by opposing the
implementation of the plan in the Security Council, that any
dictator like (former Serbian president) Slobodan Milosevic can
deal with their citizens as he or she likes and hide behind
sovereignty."


Russia has called for further talks, but Ahtisaari, who did not
meet the contact group, insisted it would be a pointless
exercise.


His deputy Albert Rohan remained confident that Security Council
unanimity could be reached, insisting that independence was the
"only game in town" if the world wanted to avoid a "messy"
solution in Kosovo.


The Austrian diplomat warned that without Security Council
backing for the plan, EU-Russia relations -- already tense --
would be further damaged, as the EU would face the fall-out.


Moscow could not simply reject the plan without providing a
viable alternative, he said.


Rohan called it a "genuine compromise proposal," adding that
remaining part of Serbia would be unacceptable to the majority in
Kosovo, meaning that independence was the only option.


The ethnic Albanian-dominated province in southern Serbia has
been under UN administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing
helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown against Albanians.


Ahtisaari said: "I don't know any means of how you would convince
the Kosovo Albanians that they should go back to Serbia. Things
went so badly wrong in the 1990s that I don't know who would be
the one who could actually control the situation.


"Our proposal guarantees perhaps the best protection in the world
for minorities," he added, referring to Kosovo's Serbian
population.


Ahtisaari said Serbia, despite the ousting of Milosevic in 2000,
could not be "rewarded" with Kosovo's return to the Belgrade
fold, and current leaders had to take on responsibility for
dealing with the "mess" of his legacy.


He said NATO would decide its own timescale for withdrawal, but
guessed that troops might remain for the best part of a decade.


"I don't think that the internationals will be disappearing in
two years' time," he estimated.


"I would say that they would stay there at least five years, but
it has not been set anywhere."


Ahtisaari's proposals were drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina.


The plans have the backing of the EU, the United States and the
leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of
Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


However Serbia sees the province as its historic heartland.

