

President Hamid Karzai attended a memorial service Thursday at
the site of a mass grave of more than 400 Afghans killed in the
communist era, saying afterwards one "tyrant" had been replaced
by another.


Karzai and senior members of his government laid a foundation
stone for a monument to be built at the grave discovered near the
Qorogh desert in the remote northeastern province of Badakshan
last month.


Rosary beads, pens, notebooks, barbed wire, chains, shackles,
hand cuffs and shoes were found at the site of the grave, the
president's office said in a statement announcing Karzai's trip.


Those buried in the grave were "murdered because of the Soviet
invasion and internal treason," Karzai said in the statement.


The Soviets occupied Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989 but communism
was only defeated in 1992, when a savage civil war erupted
between the men who led the fight against the occupiers.


"One tyrant is gone, another has come," Karzai said. "Today, our
people are still suffering at the hands of foreigners who are
abetted by internal treason," he added, referring to a growing
insurgency by the Taliban movement.


"Afghanistan will only achieve sustainable peace when the Afghan
people chop off the hands of foreigners who meddle in our
internal affairs."


Karzai and other prominent figures have alleged the Taliban are
being assisted by fundamentalist elements based across the border
in Pakistan, one of only three nations that recognised the
1996-2001 Taliban government.


Karzai has allocated five million afghani (about 100,000 dollars)
for the construction of a memorial monument, a mosque and a
museum at the site of the grave, the statement said.


Most of the victims appear to have been civilians killed for
opposing the Moscow-backed communist regime, an official said
last month.


The grave was discovered weeks after the Afghan parliament passed
a reconciliation law granting amnesty to those behind the decades
of atrocities, including during the communist regime.

