

Sudanese President Omar el-Beshir and Chadian President Idriss
Deby Itno signed a reconciliation accord in the Saudi capital on
Thursday aimed at ending tensions between their two countries.


The televised signing took place at a summit hosted by Saudi King
Abdullah, with the deal committing each of the parties to refrain
from supporting rebels in the other country.


Under the terms of the accord, released by the Saudi media, the
two countries agreed "to prevent the use of their territory to
shelter, mobilise, train, transit or finance armed opposition
movements."


They also decided "to work immediately to distance these
movements from their territory," while maintaining "respect for
the sovereignty and (territorial) integrity" of both countries.


The two presidents appeared relaxed and smiling during the
signing ceremony hosted by King Abdullah at Janadriyah, 40
kilometres (25 miles) northeast of Riyadh, as broadcast on Saudi
news channel Al-Ekhbariya.


The meeting took place a day after the two sides agreed in
principle during a meeting in Khartoum to form a joint border
force and to deploy observers.


Relations between the two countries nosedived after deadly border
clashes between Sudanese and Chadian soldiers on April 9 in and
around the war-torn Darfur region of western Sudan.


Chad apologised to Sudan but said it was in hot pursuit of rebels
who had crossed into Darfur. Khartoum said 17 of its soldiers
were killed.


Sudan and Chad accuse each other of supporting rebel forces in
their respective territories amid international fears that the
continuing strife in Darfur will spill over into Chad and ignite
a regional war.


The official Saudi news agency SPA said the king on Wednesday met
the Chadian president in Riyadh for talks on regional, Islamic
and international developments, as well as ways of enhancing
cooperation.


In November, Chad accused groups in Saudi Arabia and Sudan of
supporting Chadian rebels in their recent attempt to overthrow
the government.


In a letter to the UN Security Council, Chad said influential
circles close to the Saudi royal family were "helping to recruit
and equip the young mercenaries linked to the mysterious Al-Qaeda
on behalf of the Chadian rebellion."


In Khartoum, the press reported that the joint commission of
Sudanese, Chadian, Libyan and Eritrean officials had been held in
line with recommendations made during recent bilateral meetings
in Tripoli.


The reports gave no details on the composition or role of the
joint force, but said observers would report any border
violations to an office of the joint commission to be set up in
the Libyan capital.

