

A Dutch court ruled Thursday that ABN Amro cannot sell its US
unit LaSalle bank without putting the decision to a vote by
shareholders, in a blow for ABN Amro's plans for a friendly
takeover by Barclays.


"The court forbids ABN Amro, effective immediately, to execute or
aid in the execution of the purchase and sale agreement between
ABN Amro and Bank of America (for the sale of LaSalle) ...
without first getting the approval of a shareholders' meeting,"
said Huub Willems, the president of the Amsterdam court's
business chamber.


The judges' decision to freeze the sale boosts a proposed rival
bid for ABN Amro by a three-bank consortium led by Royal Bank of
Scotland.


ABN management has agreed to a 67-billion euro (91-billion
dollar) deal with Barclays that includes a provision to sell US
unit LaSalle Bank to Bank of America before the completion of the
takeover.


The consortium has said it would offer 72 billion euros but wants
LaSalle to remain in the ABN Amro group.


Bank of America said in a brief statement that it held a valid
contract, but did not elaborate.


"We have a binding contract and intend to take all necessary
steps to protect our legal rights," Bank of America said.


Analysts said that the decision on Thursday would further
intensify the takeover battle, with the consortium now expected
to make a formal bid for the Dutch bank.


The Dutch court case was brought by the Dutch VEB association of
shareholders which insisted that shareholders be allowed to vote
on the sale.


VEB spokesman Peter Paul de Vries hailed the decision as "an
unbelievable victory."


"The takeover battle for ABN Amro is wide open again. This ruling
will ensure the bidder who offers the most money will win," he
told AFP.


Many shareholders prefer the offer of the consortium which is
higher and partly in cash, whereas the Barclay's offer is a share
swap.


The temporary ban on the sale of LaSalle will run until at least
June 14 when the Amsterdam court will examine the complaint of
the VEB that ABN Amro is mismanaged in depth.

