

Sri Lanka will close its only international airport at night from
next week following a spate of nocturnal bombing raids by Tamil
Tiger aircraft, a top aviation official told AFP Thursday.


The Bandaranaike International Airport, which shares a runway
with an adjoining military base, will close between 10:30 pm
(1700 GMT) and 4:30 am (2200 GMT) from May 10, acting director
general of Civil Aviation Parakrama Dissanayake said.


He said international airlines will have a week to reschedule
flights to the troubled island, where the rebel Tamil Tigers
added a new dimension to a drawn out separatist conflict by using
light aircraft for the fist time last month.


At least three international airlines suspended night flights
after Tiger guerrillas flew across the airport's airspace to
carry out bombings in the capital, Colombo, and its suburbs.


The nighttime closure would be for three months initially, and
any extension would depend on the security situation, officials
said.


"The decision was taken mainly to minimise public inconvenience,
which may take place due to disruption of flights. Passenger
safety is paramount to us," Dissanayake said.


The airport has been forced to shut down three times in recent
weeks, with many incoming flights diverted to the nearby southern
Indian city of Chennai.


Dubai's Emirates Airlines and Singapore Airlines have already
switched to daytime flying after their services were disrupted
when Tiger planes bombed a fuel depot near Colombo last Sunday.


Hong Kong flag carrier Cathay Pacific has totally suspended its
services to and from Sri Lanka.


Singapore Airlines, Cathay and Emirates account for about a
quarter of Sri Lanka's air passenger traffic, according to local
travel agents.


National carrier Sri Lankan Airlines, which brings in most of the
passengers travelling to Colombo, said it was also rescheduling
its flights to accommodate the changes.


The airport handles about 70 flights a day and the nighttime shut
down would affect 40 percent of them.


The Tigers, who have been fighting for a separate state since
1972, carried out air attacks for the first time on March 26 by
bombing the Katunayake air base, where the military has its fleet
of supersonic jets.


Tiger guerrillas had previously attacked the air base on foot in
July 2001, when they destroyed more than a dozen military
aircraft and bombed six civilian passenger jets.


The rebels are believed to be operating five Czech-built Zlin-143
aircraft smuggled onto the island in pieces and re-assembled.


Sri Lanka's military has set up anti-aircraft guns at key
locations in Colombo and elsewhere.


Security forces lit up the night sky with anti-aircraft fire and
tracer bullets on Sunday. More than a dozen people were wounded
by bullets falling on them.


Western nations have already asked their nationals to avoid non-
essential travel to Sri Lanka.


More than 60,000 people have ben killed in Sri Lanka's drawn out
Tamil separatist conflict in the past 35 years.

