

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II headed Thursday for a rare state
visit to the United States, to mark the 400th anniversary of an
English settlement that laid the foundations of history's
greatest superpower.


After arriving on a chartered British Airways jet, Elizabeth was
due to start her six-day trip in the Virginia capital Richmond
and address the state's legislature, which is America's oldest
representative body.


The 81-year-old monarch is coming to the United States for the
first time since 1991, just after the first Gulf War, and marking
her fourth state visit overall since she first came as a young
woman in 1957.


Back then, she visited the New World's first permanent English
settlement at Jamestown for its 350th anniversary, and was due to
return to the Virginia town with her husband Prince Philip, 85,
on Friday.


The trip, which will also take in a White House state dinner with
President George W. Bush, marks the nations' shared history as
well as future partnerships in science, education and innovation,
Buckingham Palace says.


The queen was meanwhile expected to pay tribute to the 32
students and teachers killed in the Virginia Tech massacre just
over a fortnight ago, the United States' deadliest school
shooting.


Elizabeth, an avid horse racing fan, will also fulfill a lifelong
ambition to watch the Kentucky Derby after the Virginia leg on
May 5.


In Richmond later Thursday, Elizabeth was due to be feted with a
"Royal Welcome" in the town's neoclassical Capitol Square,
featuring a showcase of Virginia music from blues to jazz,
bluegrass to gospel.


US interest in the British monarchy has surged of late, helped by
the Oscar- winning movie "The Queen" starring Helen Mirren, and
tabloid tales of the love lives and military service of the
princes William and Harry.


The Washington Post reported that in the last week alone, 300,000
people have accessed a special website set up by the Virginia
state government to glean information about Elizabeth's visit.


"Considering the queen's a foreign alien, so to speak, she's well
loved here in Virginia, where people remain pretty anglophile,"
retired corporate lawyer Forrest Morgan, 65, told AFP.


"It's a mark of her popularity that the state had to organize a
lottery to give the public a chance to see the queen in
Richmond," he said.


Morgan now works as a volunteer guide taking visitors around the
site of the original Jamestown fort, just over an hour's drive
from Richmond.


When the queen visited 50 years ago, the fort's site adjacent to
the settlers' original landing place had not been discovered. A
wealth of recently unearthed archaeological finds awaits the
royal couple.


A total of 104 ill-prepared men and boys set up camp along the
mile-wide James River on May 14, 1607 on a swampy, mosquito-
infested island, seeking safe haven from marauding Spaniards and
a route to Oriental treasures.


Instead they found famine, disease, drought and hostile natives
whose fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement,
which was also responsible for the advent of black African slaves
in North America.


The settlers, led by intrepid adventurer Captain John Smith,
brought with them English notions of law, democracy and free
enterprise that provided the underpinnings of America's rise to
global hegemony.


After their day at the races, the royal couple fly to Washington
and meet Bush and his wife Laura at the White House on Monday.


Among the highlights before they fly home late Tuesday, they are
to tour NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center outside Washington and
visit the capital's World War II National Memorial.

