

President George W. Bush's administration warned Thursday that
plans by Congress to cut funding for a missile defense shield in
Europe could complicate negotiations for the installation of the
facilities in Poland and Czech Republic.


The strategic forces subcommittee of the Democratic-controlled
House of Representatives voted unanimously on Wednesday to block
key funding for the missile installation aimed at thwarting a
potential Iranian missile threat.


The move came as Bush administration officials prepared to visit
Warsaw and Prague later this month to begin formal negotiations
on the placement of missile defense facilities in those
countries.


The US assistant secretary of state for international security
and nonproliferation, John Rood, said the Congressional move
would "present issues for us in our discussions with those
allies."


"And at a time when NATO allies have responded so positively to
our recent discussions, I would urge against taking such a step,"
he said when responding to a question on the funding cutback
during a House hearing Thursday.


"We obviously would like to see the Congress fully fund the
president's request," said Rood, who will lead an interagency
team to the two East European capitals to launch talks on the
placement of the missile defense facilities.


"If successful, these agreements would enable us to improve the
security of the United States and our allies by giving us the
capability to defend against the real and growing missile threat
from the Middle East," he said.


The House strategic forces panel on Wednesday cut 160 million
dollars from the administration's 310 million dollar request for
the missile program in fiscal 2008, which starts October 1.


The Bush administration has proposed fielding 10 ground based
interceptors  in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic.


But Democratic lawmakers said Thursday that they were concerned
over Washington's rush to put in place an "unproven" ballistic
missile defense system amid opposition from an increasingly
belicose Russia.


Robert Wexler, chairman of the House subcommittee on Europe,
raised "political, economic and security concerns" over the
system.


"Europeans also question why -- if this program is really
intended to protect Europe -- did the administration choose to
bilaterally negotiate with Poland and the Czech Republic rather
than collectively decide this issue in NATO," he said.


"It is unacceptable for the American people -- who have footed
hundreds of billions of dollars for the debacle in Iraq -- to
once again provide a blank check to the president ... on a
questionable missile defense program, whose costs at a minimum
ought to be shared by our European allies," he said.


Rood said that Washington had proposed "transparency and
confidence building measures" to Russia as well as options for
potential missile defense cooperation with Moscow to address its
concerns over the missile defense plan.


Daniel Fried, the assistant secretary of state for European and
Eurasian affairs, said Washington was working with NATO to
explore how a US long range missile defense system could work
with NATO missile defense systems.


"We would be able to link NATO systems with the ones we plan to
deploy in order to ensure interoperability," he said. "We have
raised this idea of cooperation with NATO and hope the alliance
will agree to it."

