

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II paid tribute Thursday to a ragtag
band of adventurers who founded America's first permanent English
settlement, but also the "great civilizations" of native and
African peoples that together forged a bloody tryst with destiny
400 years ago.


Addressing the Virginia state legislature, the New World's oldest
representative body, Elizabeth noted the "melting pot" from which
was forged history's greatest superpower.


But she also stressed that the Anglo-American relationship was
"one of the most durable international collaborations anywhere in
the world at any time in history."


She said that when she visited the settlement at Jamestown in
1957, the emphasis was wholly on the white European nature of the
pioneering enterprise in the colony of Virginia.


"With the benefit of hindsight, we can see in that event the
origins of a singular endeavor -- the building of a great nation,
founded on the eternal values of democracy and equality based on
the rule of law and the promotion of freedom," the queen said at
the start of a six-day state visit.


"But 50 years on we are now in a position to reflect more
candidly on the Jamestown legacy. Human progress rarely comes
without cost," Queen Elizabeth added.


"And those early years in Jamestown, when three great
civilizations came together for the first time -- Western
European, Native American and African -- released a train of
events which continues to have a profound social impact, not only
in the United States but also in the United Kingdom and Europe."


On Friday Elizabeth and her husband, Prince Philip, were to tour
the original Jamestown fort on the eastern Virginia coast, and
survey a treasure trove of recent archaeological finds.


Unlike for the 350th anniversary five decades ago, Virginia
organizers have been keen to make this year's commemoration an
inclusive one that recognizes the costs paid by Native tribes and
black African slaves.


William Howell, the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates,
said the anniversary events amounted to "more than a bunch of
white males coming over to take this land."


A total of 104 ill-prepared English men and boys set up camp on
May 14, 1607 on a swampy, mosquito-infested island along the
James River, seeking safe haven from marauding Spaniards and a
route to Oriental treasures.


Instead they found disease, drought and hostile natives whose
fate would forever be altered by the Jamestown settlement, which
was also responsible for the advent of African slaves in North
America.


The settlers, led by intrepid adventurer Captain John Smith,
brought with them English notions of law, democracy and free
enterprise that provided the foundations of America's rise to
global hegemony.


Before addressing the state General Assembly, Elizabeth was met
with a greeting dance from local tribal leaders dressed in
ceremonial buckskin outfits and feathered head-dresses.


Chief Bill Miles of the Pamunkey tribe presented her with a
reproduction of a blue onyx brooch, whose original was said to
have been given by a London jeweler to legendary Indian princess
Pocahontas in about 1616.


In her speech, the queen said historical reassessments should not
"obscure" the epoch-making nature of the Jamestown settlement.


"This 400th anniversary marks a moment to recognize the deep
friendship which exists between our two countries," she said.


"Friendship is a complex concept. It means being able to debate
openly, disagree on occasion, surmount both good times and bad,
safe in the knowledge that the bonds that draw us together ...
are far stronger than any temporary differences of opinion."

