

A UN conference considering ways to improve the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty failed to resume Thursday as Iran remained
resolute against a call in the proposed agenda for full
compliance with the pact.


Conference chairman Japanese ambassador Yukiya Amano held a brief
session to renew a suspension begun Wednesday in official
speeches, at a two-week meeting in Vienna that started Monday.


Amano put off the next plenary session until Friday as he said he
was continuing informal talks to try and find a way for an agenda
to be adopted.


Amano said "the outcome of my consultations is that the condition
of state parties regarding my proposal on the agenda remains the
same."


Iran is isolated here, as both non-aligned states and Western
powers want the debate to go ahead but a consensus on the agenda
from the 130 states attending the conference on the 189-member
NPT is needed.


"Under these circumstances, I intend to continue with my informal
consultations," Amano said, adding that it was "important for
adoption of an agenda at an appropriate time as soon as
possible."


Amano later told AFP that he was "frustrated" and that the
plenary session, attended by some 130 nations from the 189-member
NPT, could not proceed without an agenda, despite some states
wanting to do this.


Diplomats are concerned that the Vienna meeting could descend
into procedural wrangling as happened at the last review
conference in New York in May 2005.


There is nothing exceptional about calling for compliance with
the NPT at a conference looking at ways to reinforce the treaty,
several diplomats said.


But Iran feels it is being singled out as it is currently defying
UN calls for Tehran to suspend uraniuam enrichment and is under
limited sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council.


The United States accuses Iran of seeking nuclear weapons but
Tehran insists that it wants only to produce energy for a growing
population.


The Vienna meeting is the first of a series of preparatory
conferences ahead of the next general review in 2010 of the NPT.
The landmark 1970 treaty remains the main legal barrier to the
spread of nuclear weapons.

