

The dollar kept on a slow but steady upward move Thursday as some
generally upbeat data on the US economy helped lift the greenback
further following last week's record lows against the euro.


The euro dipped to 1.3549 dollars at 2100 GMT, from 1.3590
dollars in late trade on Wednesday.


The European single currency hit a record peak of 163.60 yen, but
later fell back to 163.16 yen compared with 163.19 yen late in
New York on Wednesday.


The dollar stood at 120.41 yen, compared with 120.08 yen.


The dollar enjoyed its rally after surprisingly robust US
economic news further reinforced expectations that the US Federal
Reserve will refrain from cutting interest rates anytime soon
even though some analysts see softening conditions ahead.


The Institute for Supply Management reported that the US service
sector expanded at a faster-than-expected rate in April.


The ISM non-manufacturing business index rose to 56.0 from 52.4
in March, higher than the 54.0 economists had expected.


A reading above 50 indicates growth in the sector, while a
reading below 50 indicates contraction. The survey followed a
stronger-than-expected survey on the manufacturing sector from
the ISM.


"With both the manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors
improving, it looks like the economy is holding up quite well,"
said Joel Naroff of Naroff Economic Advisors.


Another report showed US labor productivity rose a better-than-
expected 1.7 percent in the first quarter.


The report "is very good news," Naroff said. "Productivity is
holding up, labor compensation pressures are easing and the
possibility of further solid increases in earnings is good."


The new euro/yen pinnacle came despite Japanese markets being
closed on Thursday and Friday for a public holiday, dealers said.


The European single currency has been strengthening against its
rivals on optimism about growth prospects for the 13-nation
eurozone, amid weak data in the United States and Japan.


That means dealers expect the European Central Bank to hike rates
in the coming months from the current level of 3.75 percent, in
contrast with the increased likelihood of borrowing costs not
rising elsewhere.


That makes eurozone assets even more attractive, enticing
investors to switch from other currencies -- such as the yen and
dollar -- into the euro.


All eyes are now on Friday's US non-farm payrolls report, seen as
one of the best indicators for further clues on the health of the
United States economy.


The market was expecting the report to show 100,000 new jobs
created, but a weaker figure might lead to a fresh sell-off in
the dollar, dealers said.


Based on this week's generally upbeat US economic news, "bullish
sentiment has returned" for the dollar, according to John
Kicklighter at Forex Capital Markets.


But he said the dollar rebound depends on strong economic news
continuing, saying the economy faces "an important juncture for
growth forecasts as labor trends level off and consumer sentiment
deflates."


In late New York trade, the dollar stood at 1.2158 Swiss francs
from 1.2137 late Wednesday.


The pound was being traded at 1.9872 dollars after 1.9893.

