

Former rebel commander Issa Sesay began testifying Thursday in
his war crimes trial arising from the activities of the
Revolutionary United Front (RUF) during Sierra Leone's brutal
civil war.


Sesay, who rose to be the third most senior commander in the RUF,
faces 18 charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity. With
him in the dock are two other former RUF leaders, Morris Kallon
and Augustine Gbow.


Dozens of people, among them victims of the civil war, listened
as the 36-year- old interim leader of the RUF recalled how he
joined the rebel war, which from 1991 wrecked the tiny west
African country.


The RUF's decade-long rebellion was considered one of the most
brutal in modern history. The conflict killed up to 200,000
people and RUF rebels mutilated thousands more, cutting off arms
or legs, ears or noses.


Sesay said he was in Ivory Coast, trying to get an education he
was recruited by Foday Sankoh, then the leader of the RUF, on the
pretext of job offers at restaurants in Burkina Faso.


He was among the first group of about 200 Sierra Leoneans to be
sent to Liberia for training between September 1990 and March
1991.


Sesay went on to lead a string of attacks on Sierra Leone's
eastern diamond mines.


Sesay, who was in the Senegalese capital early this year for a
surgery to remove a bullet lodged in his leg, pleaded not guilty
when the trial began in 2004.


Sesay is charged, among other things, with having abducted UN
peacekeepers.


Under his command, RUF fighers allegedly captured and abducted
women and girls to rape and use as sex slaves; used men and boys
into slave labour; and abducted children to force them to fight
in the conflict.


Earlier, Sesay's defence lawyer Wayne Jordash said he could
produce dozens of witnesses, including "miners, police officers,
journalists, farmers and herbalists ... to reject the evidence of
the prosecution in its totality."


The RUF trial began in July 2004 and the prosecution closed its
case in August 2006.


Liberian warlord and former president Charles Taylor is due go on
trial next month for war crimes and crimes against humanity over
the Sierra Leone war.


Taylor is accused of sponsoring and aiding rebel groups who
perpetrated murder, sexual slavery, mutilation and conscription
of child soldiers in Sierra Leone's civil war in exchange for a
share in the lucrative diamond trade.


A pre-trial status conference on Taylor, whose trial is due to
open at the Hague on June 4, is due on Monday, the Special Court
said in a statement.

