

The Spanish government on Thursday asked for nearly half of the
lists of candidates put forward by a tiny left-wing Basque party
to be banned from taking part in local elections later this month
because of its links to banned separatist party Batasuna.


Prosecutor general Candido Conde Pumpido said he would ask the
Supreme Court to ban 110 lists out of the 256 belonging to the
Eusko Abertzale Akintza-Action Nationalist Basque party (EAE-
ANV), a near-defunct party which took steps this year to field
candidates for the May 27 polls.


"The reason that justifies the contesting is the belief that
candidacies have infiltrated into this party which are in reality
those of Batasuna and not ANV," he told a news conference.


Batasuna has been banned since 2003 for its alleged links to
armed Basque separatist group ETA but has been seeking ways of
fielding friendly candidates in the poll in its own absence.


On Wednesday the prosecutor general said he would also ask the
Supreme Court to ban 244 supposedly apolitical "citizen lists"
inspired by Batasuna, and bearing the generic label "Abertzale
Sozialistak", from taking part in the polls.


In March Batasuna presented a new party, Abertzale Sozialisten
Batasuna, to contest the May elections. The Supreme Court is also
set to decide whether it should be allowed to stand in the poll.


ETA is blamed for over 800 deaths in its four-decade campaign to
achieve independence for the Basque region in northern Spain and
southern France.


Its political arm won 10 percent of the vote in regional
elections in 2001 and 20 percent in 1999 municipal elections.


Earlier on Thursday Batasuna's spokesman Arnaldo Otegi said
banning the party from the polls would "make it harder" to reach
a peaceful solution to the Basque conflict.


"Our work is to, through a political agreement, offer the
(Basque) people the end to the armed struggle within a democratic
framework," he told the Basque language radio station Euskadi
Irratia.


Otegi added that he did not know if there would be "deaths and
bombs" if Batasuna is not allowed to take part in the local
elections.


ETA threatened in April to put an end to a "permanent ceasefire"
which it declared in March last year if Batasuna is not able to
participate in the polls.


The Spanish government halted its peace process with the armed
group after it claimed responsibility for a December 2006 car
bombing at Madrid's airport that killed two Ecuadorian men.

