

As a toddler, undefeated boxing star Floyd Mayweather Jnr watched
a gunman shoot his drug-dealing father in the leg.


"He got shot in front of me as a kid," Mayweather said. "In my
neighborhood, to see a guy with a gun was no big deal."


As a child, he was hardened by coping with his mother's drug
addiction and growing up poor. As a teen, his father was sent to
prison for 5 1/2 years for drug trafficking. But every challenge
made Mayweather tougher.


"I have taken shots and come back hard - seven deep in one
bedroom, mom on drugs, dad in prison. I can get through
anything," Mayweather said.


"Only the strong survive."


Mayweather's latest obstacle will be fellow American Oscar de la
Hoya here in Saturday's showdown for the World Boxing Council
super-welterweight title in a fight expected to break revenue
records and pay-per-view sales.


Trash-talking Mayweather, 30, still fights for respect despite a
37-0 record with 24 knockouts. He will make 10 million dollars to
25 million for de la Hoya and WBC president Jose Sulaiman called
him "Jeff" at a news conference.


Such snubs only inspire Mayweather's anger.


"Everybody says Oscar has done such a great job promoting the
fight. But it took two. I made this fight. Popularity and fame
doesn't win fights," Mayweather said.


Mayweather has won world titles in four weight classes and won
acclaim as the best pound-for-pound fighter of his era.


"All I do is fight whoever they put in front of me," Mayweather
said. "I didn't live in Muhammad Ali's era. I didn't live in
Sugar Ray Leonard's era. This is Floyd Mayweather's time."


It has been quite a time. Mayweather owns Philthy Rich Records, a
huge Las Vegas home with 10 luxury cars, routinely carries 30,000
dollars in his baggy jeans and sported one million dollars in
diamond jewelry this week.


Mayweather is the king of "bling".


"I have a lot of money. I'm fine. Mansions. Fancy cars. I'm
happy," Mayweather said. "I'm set for the rest of my life."


Born into a boxing family, Mayweather wore tiny boxing gloves
when he could barely walk. His father was welterweight contender
Floyd Mayweather Snr. His uncle Roger Mayweather was a world
champion and uncle Jeff was also a fighter.


Mayweather began boxing at age seven and was a teen amateur star
when his father was sent to prison in 1993 for drug trafficking.


Mayweather's father was still in prison when Floyd Jnr took a
bronze medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, losing a controversial
semi-final 10-9 to Bulgaria's Serafin Todorov. He has not lost a
fight since.


When Floyd Snr was released in 1998, he began training his son
and they worked together for six fights.


But Mayweather had grown into manhood and was not ready to accept
orders from his father any more. Mayweather tossed out his father
and began using his uncle Roger as a trainer, leading to bitter
feelings that last to this day.


Floyd Snr went on to train de la Hoya for eight fights, a smack
at his son who had a grudge against the "Golden Boy" since both
were promoted by Bob Arum a decade ago.


Dysfunctional family life surrounds "Pretty Boy Floyd" to this
day. Roger Mayweather began training his nephew for this fight
after a six-month jail sentence for domestic violence that ended
March 19.


Floyd Snr was brought into the camp but walked out after hearing
his son praise his brother's training efforts, declaring that it
was his own training work on his son and de la Hoya that brought
them to the big-money showdown.


"We're used to this," Mayweather Jnr said. "One minute we're all
getting along. The next maybe we're not speaking."

