

Todd Pletcher, the top US trainer for the past three years, will
try to fill a gap in his illustrious resume Saturday when he
saddles five runners in the Kentucky Derby.


Despite his many successes, Pletcher has never trained a Triple
Crown winner. The three-time Eclipse Award winner will be hoping
to break through on Saturday in the first of the prestigious trio
of races that also includes the Preakness and Belmont Stakes.


In fact, Pletcher trains a quarter of the 20 horses entered in
the two million- dollar race.


"It doesn't matter how many you show up with," Pletcher said.
"You can show up with as many as possible. If you don't have the
right one, it doesn't mean much."


Pletcher will send Scat Daddy, Circular Quay, Cowtown Cat, Any
Given Saturday and Sam P to the gate in his bid to end a winless
streak of 21 entries in the Triple Crown, which includes an
0-for-14 mark in the Kentucky Derby.


He also is 0-for-6 in the Belmont and came up short in his lone
try in the Preakness.


A year ago, Pletcher nearly broke his Derby drought when
Bluegrass Cat finished second to Barbaro.


That showing came five years after Invisible Ink was second.


In 2000, Pletcher made another aggressive bid at capturing the
Run for the Roses by  entering four horses.


He saddled Impeachment (third), More Than Ready (fourth), Trippi
(11th) and Graeme Hall (19th and last).


Other trainers also have shown up at Churchill Downs trying to
bully their way to the winner's circle.


D. Wayne Lukas and Nick Zito, a pair of Hall of Famers, shared
the record of five Derby entries before Pletcher joined the duo
this year.


In 1996, Lukas was rewarded as Grindstone crossed the finish line
first.


It was an entirely different story for Zito in 2005, when none of
his five entries finished in the money.


His best that year was with Bellamy Road - owned by New York
Yankees boss George Steinbrenner - who placed seventh.


Pletcher seems confident that he can avoid the same
disappointment Zito endured.


"We have horses that have the necessary experience," Pletcher
said. "We have horses that are bred to go the distance. I feel
very comfortable that the horses we are bringing to it this year
have a mile-and-a-quarter ability."


The best hope for Pletcher could be either Circular Quay or Scat
Daddy.


Circular Quay, who has four wins and two seconds in seven career
starts, is coming off a triumph in the Louisiana Derby on March
10.


But he enters with history working against him as no horse since
Morvich in 1922 has won the Kentucky Derby off a two-month
layoff.


Scat Daddy was impressive in his Derby preps in Florida,
capturing both the Florida Derby and Fountain of Youth Stakes.


The colt has hit the board in seven of his eight career starts,
winning five times.


If Scat Daddy or Circular Quay are unable to come through,
Pletcher will rely on the trio of Cowtown Cat, Any Given Saturday
or Sam P. to get the job done.


Cowtown Cat gave Pletcher a glimpse of his ability as he eased to
a wire-to-wire victory in the Illinois Derby on April 7.


On the same day, Any Given Saturday was third in the Wood
Memorial in New York.


In his previous race in the Tampa Bay Derby, Any Given Saturday
was second to Street Sense, who is among the Derby favorites.


Sam P. ran third in the Santa Anita Derby in his last outing. The
colt has hit the board in five of eight career starts.

