

Caucasians carrying a common genetic variant are up to 60 percent
more likely to develop heart disease than those who don't,
regardless of lifestyle, according to two new studies.


The studies, involving about 40,000 people in four countries,
indicate that genetic factors can play a role in whether a person
develops heart disease beyond smoking, diet, exercise or other
well-established risk factors.


Heart disease is the leading cause of death in Western countries.


About 25 percent of people of European origin carry this genetic
variant, which appears on a region of chromosome 9, the
researchers reported.


"If we can identify genetic factors which influence heart disease
risk over and above known risk factors, we can do a better job of
identifying those people who will benefit most from early
intervention to reduce their risk," said Ruth McPherson, director
of the University of Ottawa Heart Institute Lipid Research
Laboratory and lead author of one of the studies.


McPherson and colleagues scanned the DNA of 1,300 heart patients
and 1,500 healthy people in Ottawa for genetic variants.


The results were checked against other large-scale genetic heart
studies in the United States and Denmark involving 22,000
patients.


Of the Ottawa patients, about 33 percent of those with early
onset heart disease had this genetic variant versus 24 percent of
healthy elderly people, McPherson said.


In a separate study, researchers in Iceland reported that this
same variant on chromosome 9 accounted for about one-fifth of the
incident of heart attack in patients of European origin and one-
third of early-onset cases, apart from other risk factors.


That study involved 17,000 people in Iceland and the United
States, of whom more than 20 percent of participants carried two
copies of the variant.


Patients with two copies of the variant had a more than 60
percent increase in risk of heart attack than those without the
variant. Those with one copy had a more moderate risk, the
researchers reported.


The variant is "one of the most significant genetic risk factors
found to date for heart attack as a public health problem," wrote
researchers at deCODE in Reykjavik, Iceland, who led the study.


Both studies were published online by the journal Science.

