

Jamestown may be hailed by many as the place where America's
traditions of free enterprise and representative democracy took
root 400 years ago. But don't tell that to Ken Adams.


"The word annihilation, the word Holocaust, the word atrocity
come to mind when I think of 1607," said Adams, chief of the
Upper Mattaponi tribe, in referring to the year a group of men
and boys arrived in Jamestown and set up the first permanent
English colony in the New World.


Of the estimated 14,000 to 15,000 Native Americans who lived in
the area around the Jamestown settlement in 1607, nearly 90
percent were wiped out within a century.


Most died from small-pox, typhus and other Old World diseases
brought by the colonists and to which the American Indians had
never been exposed. Some also died in fighting with the settlers.


For Adams and other Native Americans, these stark numbers give
little reason to celebrate the occasion, with Britain's Queen
Elizabeth due to arrive later Thursday in Virginia to mark the
anniversary.


When Elizabeth visited Jamestown in 1957 for the 150th
commerations, Virginia failed to show "that the progress came at
a cost" of countless lives of Native Americans and the
inauguration of the transatlantic slave trade, Governor Tim Kaine
said Thursday.


"It strikes me that this time we really have a chance to get it
right," he told reporters shortly before he was due to welcome
the queen.


Organizers of the 400th anniversary have acknowledged the
concerns expressed by American Indians and blacks about
Jamestown, where the first African slaves arrived in 1619, and
have toned down the event from a "celebration" to a
"commemoration".


"We are certainly proud to be Americans but from our perspective
we don't feel like the 400th anniversary of the Jamestown
settlement is something to celebrate or commemorate," said Bill
Miles, chief of Virginia's Pamunkey Indian tribe, one of some 40
tribes that lived in the area in the 17th century.


Today there are eight state-recognized tribes in Virginia.


"When the English boats arrived on our shores, that was the
beginning of the English taking our land away from us," Miles
told AFP.


"We fed them and they decided they wanted our food so they took
it away from us, and they wanted our land and they took that away
from us."


Governor Kaine noted that aside from the 400th anniversary of
Jamestown's founding, this year also marks the 200th anniversary
of a law that outlawed the slave trade in the British empire.


Earlier this year, Virginia became the first US state to express
remorse for slavery in a move which may pave the way for others
in the United States that has never officially apologized for
enslaving Africans and their descendants.


"We know that the Virginia Indians were here 10,000 years before
the English arrived so it's a little disingenuous to say the
English discovered Jamestown in 1607," said Mike Litterst,
spokesman for the Colonial National Historic Park.


"We now tell the story of Jamestown as the place where the people
of three cultures came together, not only the English in 1607."


Adams said he hoped that in referring to Jamestown, people will
not only hail it as the first permanent English settlement that
gave birth to America but will recognize it as a painful symbol
for Native Americans.


"When I look at the history, I can't help but be disappointed
when I ride through these roads here and I see that only one or
two percent of the people are Indians," Adams said. "Four hundred
years ago, there was only us."

