

The UN special envoy on Kosovo insisted Thursday that his plan
for supervised independence was the only way forward for the
province and was adamant that strong Russian opposition could be
overcome.


Martti Ahtisaari spoke as diplomats from the Kosovo Contact Group
countries met in London to discuss the next steps forward on his
plans for the province to quit Serbia.


The former Finnish president proposes granting Kosovo
internationally supervised independence, with NATO troops
providing security and the European Union economic assistance.


Russia has supported Serbia's opposition to the plan, rejecting
it as a violation of the country's territorial integrity.


There are fears that if Moscow wields its veto in the Security
Council to block the creation of an independent Kosovo, the
province's leaders will unilaterally declare independence.


Russia, along with Britain, France, Germany, Italy and the United
States, is part of the Kosovo Contact Group.


US and other officials who attended the London talks believe
Moscow's opposition is "not insurmountable," a US official said
in Washington.


US under secretary of state Nicholas Burns reported back that the
plan would soon go to the Security Council in the form of a
resolution.


"I think that's indicative of the fact that we do think that
differences or concerns that the Russians have can be bridged,"
the official said.


Speaking to reporters in London, Ahtisaari stressed: "This is the
only possible solution if we want to solve the Kosovo problem.


"I would find it extremely difficult to think that today's Russia
would like to send a message to the world, by opposing the
implementation of the plan in the Security Council, that any
dictator like (former Serbian president) Slobodan Milosevic can
deal with their citizens as he or she likes and hide behind
sovereignty."


Russia has called for further talks, but Ahtisaari, who did not
meet the contact group, insisted it would be a pointless
exercise.


In Kosovo, the province's President Fatmir Sejdiu said the
province would be independent "soon," hinting that it would be
done with or without Russia's approval.


"There is no doubt about Kosovo's independence and its
international recognition of it," he said.


In the southern town of Prizren, Germany's Defence Minister Franz
Josef Jung urged ethnic Albanians to be patient. A unilateral
declaration of independence would be the wrong solution, he said.


Ahtisaari's deputy, Albert Rohan, remained confident that
Security Council unanimity could be reached, insisting that
independence was the "only game in town."


The Austrian diplomat warned that without Security Council
backing for the plan, EU-Russia relations -- already tense --
would be further damaged, as the EU would face the fall-out from
a "messy" solution in Kosovo.


Rohan called it a "genuine compromise proposal". Remaining part
of Serbia would be unacceptable to the majority in Kosovo,
meaning that independence was the only option, he added.


The ethnic Albanian-dominated province in southern Serbia has
been under UN administration since mid-1999, after NATO bombing
helped to drive out Serbian forces who were waging a brutal
crackdown against Albanians.


Ahtisaari said it would be impossible to convince Albanians to
accept a return to rule from Belgrade and no one could police
such an outcome.


Serbia, despite the ousting of Milosevic in 2000, could not be
"rewarded" with Kosovo's return to the Belgrade fold, and current
leaders had to take on responsibility for dealing with the "mess"
of his legacy, he added.


NATO would decide its own timescale for withdrawal, he said,
guessing that troops might remain for "at least five years."


Ahtisaari's proposals were drafted after he led a year of mostly
fruitless talks between Belgrade and Pristina.


The plans have the backing of the EU, the United States and the
leaders of ethnic Albanians, who comprise around 90 percent of
Kosovo's two million inhabitants.


However Serbia sees the province as its historic heartland.

