

A molten core may make Mercury spin in its orbit like a raw egg,
according to a study published online Thursday in Science
magazine.


Scientists have long though that Mercury had a solid iron core
which froze as the planet cooled off after it was formed billions
of years ago.


Researchers at NASA and Cornell used the same trick chefs use to
see if an egg is raw or hard-boiled to show that the planet
closest to the sun is still gooey inside.


Just as an egg spins differently when it's been cooked, so too
should solid planets.


But Mercury showed tiny twists in its spin as it orbited the sun
which were twice what would be expected in a completely solid
body.


These twists -- or longitudinal librations -- were explained by
the fact that molten cores are not forced to rotate along with
the shell. They occur as the force of the sun's gravitational
pull affects the planet's slightly asymmetrical shape.


To maintain a molten core for such a long time after the planet
has cooled, the core must contain other elements besides iron,
researchers said.


That makes it likely that the core contains a lighter element
such as sulfur which would lower its melting temperature.


The presence of sulfur would also support the theory that
elements both close and far away from the sun were involved in
Mercury's formation.


Researchers measured the twists in Mercury's spin by sending a
powerful radar signal to the planet and picking up the signal's
echo at two telescopes that were about 2,000 miles apart.


They were able to calculate the spin rate by measuring how long
it took for a particular pattern to arrive at the two locations.


Since Earth and Mercury are only in the necessary alignment for
periods of 20 seconds at a time the 21 measurements had to be
very carefully timed.


More information about Mercury is expected to be gleaned when the
NASA spacecraft Messenger makes its first fly-by in 2008 before
beginning to orbit the planet in 2011.


"It is our hope that Messenger will address the remaining
questions that we cannot address from the ground," said lead
author by Jean-Luc Margot, a professor of astronomy at Cornell
University.

