

The White House played down US-Syria talks Thursday on the
sidelines of an Iraq conference in Egypt, calling them informal
"sidebar" chats to demand more support for the government in
Baghdad.


"Any conversations would not be bilateral discussions. They would
not be formal negotiations," spokesman Tony Snow said when asked
about US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's meeting with her
Syrian counterpart.


Rice held an unprecedented meeting with her Syrian counterpart
Walid Muallem during meetings on Iraqi stability at the Egyptian
Red Sea resort of Sharm el- Sheikh.


"The one and only topic, again, in Sharm el- Sheikh is to say:
'It is time now to step forward and support the government of
Iraq.' That is the strong message that is being sent," said Snow.


"And for those who are undermining, they need to stop and they
need to begin to support the democratically elected government of
Iraq. And it really goes no further than that," he said.


Washington accuses Damascus of letting anti-US insurgents cross
from Syria to Iraq, and of supporting terrorist groups in Lebanon
and in the Palestinian territories.


Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Abul Gheit escorted Muallem into
a room where Rice was waiting and then withdrew shortly
afterwards.


"I would say it was professional, businesslike. It was very
concrete ... I didn't lecture him, he didn't lecture me," Rice
told reporters after the half- hour meeting.


Snow described the meeting as one of a series of "sidebar, pull-
aside conversations" and insisted: "I'm not sure that they had
formal discussions. I'm not sure it was just (them) two."


"It is a far different thing diplomatically than setting up
meetings and setting up a broad agenda. This is a conversation
about the subject of the conference itself," he said.


Democrats in Congress, who have been highly critical of the US
reluctance to engage Syria, welcomed the talks, which they said
were overdue.


"I appreciate the fact that this administration, which has been
so quick to criticize those of us who have met with Syrian
leaders, has finally decided to take this important diplomatic
step," said former presidential candidate John Kerry, who visited
Syria in December.


Congressman Tom Lantos, who joined House of Representatives
speaker Nancy Pelosi in Damascaus in April on a trip which
angered the White House, said the talks were an improvement to
the "administration's ostrich policy."


"It is infinitely better to confront in a firm but civilized way
those with whom we disagree than simply to give them the silent
treatment," he said.

