

Forces loyal to the outgoing president of the Comoros island of
Anjouan on Thursday took control of a building housing federal
offices in what one Afican Union official called a "coup."


A day after clashing with the army, supporters of Mohamed Bacar
entered the building in Anjouan's capital Moutsamadou when the
army retreated, said national assembly deputy speaker Youssouf
Said.


"About 30 soldiers of the Comoran army in Anjouan beat a retreat
due to lack of ammunition. They took refuge in Sima region," he
told AFP.


The African Union representative in the Indian Ocean archipelago,
Mourad Taiati, confirmed that the soldiers had abandoned the
presidential headquarters.


"It looks like a coup," said Taiati, adding that Bacar's men
numbered some 500.


"The situation looks bad. It is a breakdown of the national
reconciliation process," Taiati said.


Although Anjouan was calm on Thursday, many businesses remained
closed and few people ventured into the empty streets.


In a statement, the African Union said it was concerned by the
deterioration of security in Anjouan.


Meanwhile, hundreds of soldiers critical of the handling of the
crisis on Thursday attacked the country's army chief, Colonel
Said Hamza, in a military camp on Grande Comore, the main island
in the archipelago.


Hamza was immediately sacked and replaced by a team of three
officers.


Outgoing Anjouan president Bacar's supporters clashed heavily
with the army on Wednesday after attacking the federal offices,
causing no casualties.


Bacar seized power on Anjouan in a coup in August 2001. He was
elected president of the island for a five-year term in March the
following year.


Last week, the Comoros' constitutional court ruled that he had
served his term and nominated an interim president to serve until
elections in June when all three Comoros islands are to choose
their respective presidents.


On Tuesday, Kaabi Houmadi, the interim president, unveiled his
cabinet, prompting Bacar's government to denounce the move.


Comoros has endured 19 coups or attempted coups since gaining
independence from France in 1975. In 1997, the islands of Anjouan
and Moheli declared independence from Grande Comore.

