

Journalists in the Democratic Republic of Congo gathered outside
the sacked offices of the opposition media Thursday to express
solidarity with their colleagues on World Press Freedom Day.


Accompanied by trades unionists, the gathering was to protest
against the army's destruction in March of the media headquarters
owned by opposition leader Jean- Pierre Bemba.


"We wanted to come here, to Canal Congo TV (CCTV), Canal Kin TV
and Radio Liberte Kinshasa, to express our solidarity with our
colleagues who were hit hard," said Chantal Kanyimbo, president
of the National Union of the Congolese Press.


DR Congo authorities forcibly closed the two television stations
and the radio channel owned by Bemba on March 21, the eve of two
days of bloody clashes between his bodyguards and the military
which claimed at least 200 lives.


"Their tools of work have been completely destroyed. It is an
attack on the liberty of the press because it is the expression
of opinion that has been silenced," said Kanyimbo.


This kind of attack on freedom of opinion is unacceptable in a
democracy, she said.


Earlier, the demonstrators laid a wreath at the graves of Franck
Ngyke et Bapuwa Mwamba, two journalists killed in Kinshasa in
2005 and 2006.


President Joseph Kabila's presidential guard occupied the city
centre offices of his broadcasting stations for three weeks.


When they left, the building's equipment had been destroyed,
documents torn up and left in the dirt and the furniture looted.


Bemba, who lost to President Joseph Kabila in the last
presidential election, has flown out to Portugal on April 11,
ostensibly for medical treatment.


The stations plan to file a formal complaint and apply for
compensation to fund their bid to get back on air, said Maurice
Bokoko, director of CCTV.


In March, the French media rights group Reporters without Borders
(RSF) expressed concern about the fate of some of the stations'
journalists who had gone into hiding.


A journalist with CCTV, Papy Tembe Moroni, was released last
month on bail after having been arrested for inciting violence.

