

Armed men abducted at least 20 foreigners in three separate
incidents in southern Nigeria overnight to Thursday in the latest
spate of violence to hit Africa's biggest oil producer.


The attacks, less than two weeks after presidential elections
marred by violence and widespread allegations of fraud, followed
another kidnapping Tuesday in which six expatriates were seized
from a floating oil vessel.


On Wednesday night an unemployed Dutch oil worker was kidnapped
from a bar in the southern town of Warri in the oil-rich Delta
state.


Then early Thursday three Korean executives and eight Filipino
workers were seized from a construction site in Rivers state
after a gunfight.


In a third incident, gunmen kidnapped eight foreigners working on
a floating storage vessel operated by ENI of Italy and Single
Buoy Moorings, the Mystras, anchored 90 kilometers (55 miles) off
the Rivers coast, only to announce hours later that they had
released them.


Industry sources said the Mystras hostages were a Briton, two
Croatians, one Australian, a Romanian, a Chilean and two Poles.


Poland's ambassador to Nigeria confirmed their release, saying
they were taken to Port Harcourt for a medical checkup, PAP news
agency reported in Warsaw.


An official with Single Buoy Moorings (SBM) said the attack had
forced a production shutdown resulting in the loss of "between
40,000 and 50,000 barrels per day" of oil on the Okono field
where the vessel was moored.


Nigeria's most high profile armed group, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND), claimed responsibility
for the Mystras attack.


"They have all been released now and are heading to Port
Harcourt. The vessel was meant to have been destroyed. We have no
need for more hostages just yet," a spokesman for the group said
in an email sent to AFP.


MEND, which seized six foreign workers in another offshore raid
on Tuesday, however declined responsibility for the attack in
which the Korean Daewoo Group executives and Filipinos workers
were grabbed.


That attack happened around 1:00 am (0000 GMT) at the
construction site of the Afam 6 power plant near Rivers state
capital Port Harcourt.


One industry source said the attack appeared to have been carried
out with inside knowledge, since Daewoo's kidnapped managing
director, 52-year-old Chung Tae-Young, had just arrived in the
area on a business trip.


"Two minibuses full of armed guys came and shot up the nearest
roadblock, then they used dynamite on the Afam 6 gate and
perimeter fence," the source, who asked not to be named, told
AFP.


A local resident, also requesting anonymity, said one soldier and
one local resident had been killed in the assault.


The military and the security men who guard the site normally
remove their uniforms and hide their weapons at night in order to
avoid risking their lives in such attacks, the resident said.


A Nigerian driver kidnapped along with the 11 at the construction
site and later released was quoted by the South Korean foreign
ministry as saying the Korean workers were not harmed by their
captors.


"We have decided to temporarily close down the construction site
and have evacuated 195 personnel including 135 Daewoo employees
and 60 Filipino workers," said Lee Hong-Jae, head of Daewoo's
foreign business operations.


MEND is the best-organised and best-equipped of the militant
groups in the region, industry and security sources say.


Rich in oil reserves, the Niger Delta area has been at the centre
of a long confrontation between the government, militants who
claim to be fighting for a larger share of the country's oil
resources for local people and a plethora of armed gangs.

