

Amadou Toumani Toure, re-elected for a second term in weekend
elections in Mali, is a former military ruler known as the
"soldier of democracy" for bringing democracy to the impoverished
west African state.


Fifty-eight year-old "ATT", as he is affectionately called, ran
Mali during a transitional period for slightly over one year in
the early 1990s after overthrowing the dictatorial regime of
Moussa Traore.


In 1992, he returned power to civilian rule and opened the way
for the first democratically elected president.


The elections that year saw Alpha Oumar Konare voted president.
Konare stood down in 2002 at the end of his second five-year term
in office to take up the chairmanship of the African Union
Commission.


A year before standing for the presidency in 2002, Toure was UN
special envoy to the Central African Republic after an
unsuccessful coup attempt there. He has also mediated in the
Great Lakes region crisis.


With the support of 30 political groupings, the former coup
leader won the 2002 polls and took the April 29 vote with more
than 68 percent of the ballots drawn from the support of 44
political parties.


Sixteen other political groupings rallied against him split their
vote between four candidates.


"I did not have a political party then( in 2002), I still do not
have one. It's what I call consensus," Toure told AFP in a recent
interview.


The retired general, was born in 1948 in the central Mali region
of Mopti and took up military studies at home, in France and
Russia. He has a passion for football.


His campaign issues centred on development of this poverty-
stricken country, promising housing, new roads, free health for
children and pregnant women, pay hikes for civil servants and job
creation for young people.


He enjoys excellent ties with the United States which has donated
millions of dollars for the development of health and education
in the the vast and partly arid country. He is also on good terms
with Libya and former colonial power France.


After gaining independence from France in 1960 Mali was led by
president Modibo Keita until he was overthrown in 1968 by Moussa
Traore.


After more than two decades in power, Traore's regime was
overthrown by an armed insurrection in March 1991 led by Toure.
Several hundred people died and thousands were wounded.

