

Rights groups on Thursday challenged a new deal that would allow
Ottawa to monitor Taliban prisoners transferred into Afghan
custody, amid allegations that some of the inmates have been
tortured.


The government said in an affidavit Ottawa would now have greater
access to insurgents in Afghan jails, under the terms of the pact
opposed by Amnesty International Canada and the British Columbia
Civil Rights Association.


For months, rights groups and opposition parties have sparred
with the government over the treatment of Afghan prisoners, once
they are handed over to local Afghan authorities.


But the Canadian government repeatedly denied allegations of
torture by Kabul.


"It seems peculiar that something as significant as this (deal)
would emerge at the last minute, in an affidavit," Alex Neve,
secretary general of Amnesty International Canada, told AFP.


"We were surprised and disconcerted that it came out in this
way."


Neve said he would review the terms of the deal, but insisted his
bid for an injunction to halt the prisoner transfers would
continue.


"We don't believe it's a solution to the problem and will not be
abandoning our court case ... Monitoring doesn't protect people
when there is rampant torture," he said outside the federal
court.


A better solution would be for NATO allies to take responsibility
for jailing Taliban prisoners in Afghanistan, to ensure
conformity with international human rights standards, he said.


An investigative report by The Globe and Mail newspaper last
month uncovered "a litany of gruesome stories and a clear pattern
of abuse by the Afghan authorities who work closely with Canadian
troops."


The report, which was based on interviews with 30 former
prisoners of Kandahar jails, said detainees suffered whippings
with electrical cables, electric shocks, exposure to cold and
beatings.


However it contained no mention of any abuse by the 2,500
Canadian troops in Afghanistan engaged in a fight against Taliban
and Al-Qaeda fighters.


The report also sparked opposition calls for Canada's defense
minister Gordon O'Connor to resign.

