

Russia lashed out Thursday at the European Union and NATO for
supporting Estonia in its row with Moscow over the relocation of
a Soviet war monument.


Russia's representative to the Organisation for Security and
Cooperation in Europe, Alexei Borodavkin, attacked what he called
EU and NATO "indifference and connivance."


"What happened in Estonia ... cannot fail to affect relations
between Russia and the European Union and the North Atlantic
alliance," he was quoted as saying by Interfax news agency.


Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told his German counterpart Frank-
Walter Steinmeier by telephone that backing for EU and NATO
member Estonia "contradicts European values and culture," a
foreign ministry statement said.


Moscow's diplomatic attack broadened a week-long row between
Russia and Estonia over the relocation of a Soviet World War II
memorial from the centre of Tallinn to a military cemetery in the
Estonian capital.


Estonia says the memorial offends many by symbolising the Soviet
occupation of the Baltics, while Russia says the memorial should
stay where it is to celebrate victory against Nazi Germany in
World War II.


The NATO military alliance, the United States and the European
Union have pledged support to Estonia and expressed concern over
the harrassment of Estonian diplomats in Russia over the last
week.


Earlier Thursday, Lavrov told Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas
Paet in a telephone conversation that Tallinn's actions had "led
to seriously negative consequences for Russian-Estonian
relations," a ministry statement said.


Lavrov also rejected Estonian criticism of a noisy and
occasionally violent demonstration by pro-Kremlin youth groups
outside the Estonian embassy in Moscow.


"The Russian law enforcement bodies are taking all necessary
measures so that the actions of demonstrators... do not exceed
the bounds of the law," he told Paet, according to the ministry's
statement.


Lavrov called on Estonia to launch an immediate investigation
into the police handling of riots by mostly ethnic-Russian youths
in Tallinn last week in protest at the relocation of the
controversial monument.

