

Rights groups were blindsided in court Thursday by a deal that
would allow Ottawa to monitor Taliban prisoners transferred into
Afghan custody, amid allegations that some of the inmates have
been tortured.


For months, the rights groups and opposition parties have sparred
with the government over the treatment of Afghan prisoners, once
handed over to Afghan authorities.


But the government has repeatedly denied allegations of torture
by Kabul, and insisted safeguards were put in place to prevent
such.


The squabble ended up in court Thursday with rights group seeking
an injunction to halt the transfers.


"It seems peculiar that something as significant as this (deal)
would emerge at the last minute, in an affidavit," Alex Neve,
secretary general of Amnesty International Canada, told AFP.


"We were surprised and disconcerted that it came out in this
way."


The government said in an affidavit Ottawa would now have greater
access to insurgents in Afghan jails, under the terms of the pact
signed the same day, and asked the court to adjourn proceedings.


But Amnesty International Canada and the British Columbia Civil
Liberties Association balked at stopping their legal action.


Neve said he would review the terms of the deal, but insisted his
bid for an injunction to halt the prisoner transfers would
continue.


"We don't believe it's a solution to the problem and will not be
abandoning our court case ... Monitoring doesn't protect people
when there is rampant torture," he said outside the federal
court.


A better solution, he said, would be for NATO allies to take
responsibility for jailing Taliban prisoners in Afghanistan, to
ensure conformity with international human rights standards.


An investigative report by The Globe and Mail newspaper last
month uncovered "a litany of gruesome stories and a clear pattern
of abuse by the Afghan authorities who work closely with Canadian
troops."


The report, which was based on interviews with 30 former
prisoners of Kandahar jails, said detainees suffered whippings
with electrical cables, electric shocks, exposure to cold and
beatings.


However it contained no mention of abuse by the 2,500 Canadian
troops in Afghanistan engaged in a fight against Taliban and Al-
Qaeda fighters.


The report also sparked opposition calls for Canada's defense
minister Gordon O'Connor to resign.


A statement by Foreign Minister Peter MacKay's office, in an
email to AFP, said the new agreement builds on a December 2005
pact on detainees, which still remains in effect.


"We said we would work with the Afghan government to clarify
their responsibilities for the treatment of Taliban prisoners ...
These clarifications make explicit their responsibilities," it
reads.


The government affidavit Thursday states the Afghanistan Human
Rights Commission and Canadian personnel would have "full and
unrestricted access" to the Afghan prisoners, and Ottawa would be
informed of any court proceedings, release or allegations of
torture involving detainees.


Afghanistan must also heed international human rights
obligations, "including prohibiting torture and cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment, protection against torture and using only
such force as is reasonable to guard against escape," the
document reads.


Canadian soldiers, meanwhile, will be permitted to "interview
detainees in private, without Afghan authorities present."

