

General Motors reported a 90 percent drop in quarterly profits
Thursday as losses at its lending arm due to weakness in the
housing market offset improved results in automotive operations.


The net profit for the Detroit auto giant amounted to 62 million
dollars, down from 602 million in the first quarter of 2006.


The results excluding special item were 17 cents per share, well
below market expectations of 84 cents per share. GM shares
plunged 4.13 percent to 31.16 dollars in morning trade.


Automotive operations produced a net profit of 272 million
dollars in the quarter as GM showed some progress in pulling out
of a slide that has allowed Japan's Toyota to overtake the
Detroit firm as the world's biggest automaker.


GM's auto operations in North America lost 85 million dollars,
narrower that the 251-million-dollar deficit a year earlier as
the automaker began to reap the benefits of a massive
restructuring program.


"The first quarter of 2007 marked another quarter of continued
progress in GM's global automotive operations," said GM chairman
and chief executive Rick Wagoner.


"We were able to expand vehicle sales and improve automotive
profitability based on the progress in our turnaround initiatives
in North America and Europe and our expansion strategy for key
growth markets like China, Russia and South America.


"We continue to see progress on the automotive bottom line as we
implement the strategies laid out two years ago."


GM's chief financial officer said he was "quite confident" the
automaker would achieve its goal of reducing operating expenses
by nine billion dollars this year and said further cost cuts
could be achieved in the future.


"We do expect to see continued year-on-year savings related to
attrition and hourly retiree health care," Fritz Henderson said
in a conference call with analysts.


He forecast GM would achieve "improved automotive earnings and
improved by negative cash flow and strong revenue growth outside
of North America" in the second quarter of this year.


Henderson noted that GM had seen a significant improvement in
revenue per vehicle which rose to 21,072 dollars in the first
quarter of 2007 from 20,008 dollars in 2006 and 18,938 dollars in
2005.


However, he cautioned that GM's results could be impacted by
volatile fuel prices should consumers continue to shy away from
GM's more profitable line of trucks and sports utility vehicles
in favor of more fuel-efficient cars.


The key area of weakness for the company was the GMAC financial
arm, of which the automaker now holds 49 percent of GMAC after
selling a majority stake last year.


GMAC was initially set up to finance car purchases but later
expanded to mortgages, and now the unit is hurting from the
weakness in so-called subprime or nonprime loans to people with
weak credit histories.


"The decline in reported GM earnings is more than accounted for
by losses in the residential mortgage business of GMAC Financial
Services (GMAC), driven by continued weakness in the US nonprime
mortgage sector," GM said in a statement.


GMAC suffered a loss of 305 million dollars compared with a
profit of 495 million a year earlier.


The GMAC unit Residential Capital LLC (ResCap) alone suffered a
loss of 910 million dollars "due to continued pressures in the US
mortgage market," GM said.


The results were disappointing regardless of the losses at GMAC,
said Goldman Sachs analyst Robert Barry.


"This seems like a weak year-on-year performance to us given we
are at the peak of GM's product cadence and GM North America
revenue per unit showed significant strength," he wrote in a
research report.


"We suspect added product content, raw materials costs and
pricing on older vehicles muted the year-on-year improvement," he
wrote, noting that GM ought to have shown better profits given
the significant cost reductions achieved.

