

Russia's UN envoy stormed out of a Security Council meeting on
Kosovo here Monday and accused the UN special envoy for the
Albanian-majority Serbian province of "preaching for
independence".


"His remarks have been extremely one-sided and unhelpful,"
Ambassador Vitaly Churkin told reporters, referring to the UN
special representative for Kosovo Joachim Rucker, who is based in
the province.


"He was preaching for independence instead of discussing
implementation of Resolution 1244 and this is very unhelpful."


Security Council 1244, adopted in 1999, authorizes the United
Nations to facilitate a political process to determine Kosovo's
future status.


Churkin said the UN mediators "are jumping the gun and are
beginning to advocate outright independence and this is not
good."


After more than 13 months of UN-sponsored talks, Serbian and
ethnic Albanian officials failed on March 10 to agree on future
self-rule for the disputed Serbian province and UN envoy and
chief mediator, Martti Ahtisaari, said last week "the potential
of negotiations is exhausted."


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians. The talks are meant to set
out a future status for the Serbian province.


Ahtisaari, the former Finnish president said he would finalize
his proposal and submit it to the Security Council, where Russia
could use its right of veto, for its review and final say "in the
course of the next month."


His plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-governance
to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to break away
from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia, and its traditional
ally, Russia.


Over the weekend Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said more
effort was needed to find a compromise between Serbia and
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority over the future of the province
currently under UN supervision.


And he suggested that if Ahtisaari "has exhausted his resources,
we can surely find someone else to handle this issue."


Churkin confirmed Monday that Moscow would like to see Ahtissari
replaced.


"This is what we are advocating," he said.


"Ahtissari has been saying he thought he is at the end of the
road. So the situation has to be considered. The main thing is
not the personality, the main thing is to continue negotiations."


Churkin said Rucker had singled out one principle, that a
settlement ""must be acceptable to the people of Kosovo."


But Churkin argued that: "To me it's not being acceptable to the
majority of the population, but acceptable to the multi-ethnic
people of Kosovo," and he stressed that the outcome must be
"acceptable to the Serbs and of course the Albanians (of
Kosovo)."


Last week, Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica again
accused Ahtisaari, of favouring the ethnic-Albanian side in the
talks.


"Ahtisaari has gone over to one side, that of the Albanians, and
has made biased proposals," Kostunica told the Tanjug agency.


The Serbian leader called for fresh talks that would lead to an
agreement respecting international law and the Serbian
constitution.

