

Two more Japanese power companies reported past nuclear incidents
on Monday amid an uproar after an operator admitted covering up
an uncontrollable chain reaction.


Tohoku Electric Power Co. and Chubu Electric Power Co., which
provide power to Japan's central and northern regions, said they
mishandled nuclear rods in incidents in 1988 and 1991.


But in separate statements, the companies said they had managed
the incidents before they reached the state of "criticality," or
uncontrollable chain reactions, so they did not need to report
them to the government.


Another company, Hokuriku Electric Power Co., said last week it
failed to report a June 1999 accident in which a reactor
experienced uncontrollable chain reactions for 15 minutes because
rods were improperly inserted.


While nobody was hurt, news of the cover-up provoked an uproar
because the incident had taken place three months before one of
Japan's worst nuclear accidents in which two workers were killed
and 600 people exposed to radiation from the Tokaimura uranium
plant.


Prime Minister Shinzo Abe criticised the cover-up of the
accident.


"Any nuclear accidents have to be reported appropriately," he
told reporters. "Covering up of an accident is the worst thing to
do."


In the newly acknowledged incidents, Chubu Electric said three
nuclear fuel rods were improperly inserted in May 1991 at a
reactor in central Shizuoka prefecture.


"In this case, the state of criticality did not occur," a
statement said. "This incident did not cause workers' exposure or
leakage of radiation."


Tohoku Electric reported a similar incident in which two fuel
rods were not placed appropriately in 1988, in northern Miyagi
prefecture.


Resource-poor Japan relies on nuclear power for 30 percent of its
needs, but reactors frequently encounter public resistance due to
safety concerns including a series of cover-up scandals.


Japan, the only nation that was attacked with atomic bombs, is
also sensitive about possible radiation leakage from nuclear
reactor plants.

