

Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo, held hostage in
Afghanistan for two weeks, has been freed, Italian Prime Minister
Romano Prodi announced Monday.


Mastrogiacomo, 52, was admitted to a hospital in Lashkar Gah,
capital of southern Helmand province but is in good health, Prodi
said.


"I hope we can hold him in our arms very soon," the prime
minister said in an announcement carried live by the all-news
channel Sky TG 24.


Mastrogiacomo, a veteran correspondent for the left-leaning La
Repubblica daily, spoke to the Italian ambassador in Kabul,
Ettore Francesco Sequi, by telephone to confirm his release at
around 1400 GMT, a foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


"I'm very happy, I thank you all. I knew you wouldn't abandon me,
and that gave me strength and courage," he said over La
Repubblica's online television station.


The association Peace Reporter said the veteran journalist was
dressed in Afghan garb and "is well and in great shape."


His first words as he hugged Gino Strada, founder of Emergency
humanitarian group that runs the Lashkar Gah hospital, were "I'm
fine," Peace Reporter said on its website.


Mastrogiacomo's interpreter Adjmal Nashkbandi was also freed, the
foreign ministry spokesman said. The independent Pajhwok Afghan
News reported last week that his driver had been executed on
suspicion of spying. The three were captured together on March 4
in Helmand, a Taliban stronghold.


Emergency was the go-between in negotiations for Mastrogiacomo's
release along with that of his interpreter and driver.


Pajhwok, citing an audiotape message from a rebel commander, said
Mastrogiacomo was freed in exchange for five Taliban prisoners.


The journalist said: "There were moments when I was really afraid
of being killed from one minute to the next."


His captors bound him hand and foot "sometimes" and held him in
15 different locations, he said on La Repubblica's online TV
site.


"I feel really confused in my head, but I'm happy. I managed to
get out of it thanks to the help of the government, the foreign
ministry, of all my friends and colleagues," he said.


A Taliban commander threatened last week to kill Mastrogiacomo if
a series of demands were not met by Monday evening, notably the
release of three figures of the extremist group in Afghan
government custody.


A Taliban spokesman told AFP Sunday that Mastrogiacomo and the
interpreter had been handed to tribal elders pending a final deal
for their release.


Mastrogiacomo begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the Pajwohk news agency last Thursday.

