

Now that he's had his first taste of victory in nine months,
Rafael Nadal says his focus is on winning more Grand Slams and
not worrying about the rankings.


Speaking after winning his first ATP title in 13 tournaments and
initial victory of 2007, Nadal said Sunday he has a long way to
go to catch Swiss superstar Roger Federer.


"Right now Roger is not my competition because Roger is the best
in history," Nadal said.


"I am No 2 and Roger is No 1 and far ahead of all the others.


"My goal is to continue winning tournaments and remain in the top
rankings but maybe the No 1 is very, very difficult. I am not
thinking about that.


"If I play like this I can win another major."


After defending his French Open title in June, Nadal hit a rough
patch and didn't win another title until Sunday's 6-2, 7-5
victory over Serb Novak Djokovic at the ATP Indian Wells Masters
Series tournament.


The left handed Spaniard lost to Fernando Gonzelez in the
quarter-finals at the Australian Open earlier this year. At an
Indian Wells tune-up event in Doha he was beaten in the quarters
by Mikhail Youzhny of Russia.


Prior to Indian Wells, his best result of 2007 was making the
semi-finals in his first tournament in Chennai.


Nadal has 18 career singles titles and two Grand Slams and when
he was the same age, Federer had won three ATP titles.


Looking at the age comparison some might think the soft spoken
Spaniard has modest goals but Nadal says if he continues to
improve the titles fall into place.


"I know if I continue to be in the top positions I am going to
have the chances to win more titles. My goal is to continue to
have titles like this one and try to win another Grand Slam,"
Nadal said.


Nadal said he would wait until after his next tournament to
celebrate his Indian Wells victory.


The Miami tournament, which includes two-time defending champion
Federer, is up next for Nadal. In April, he has Davis Cup
commitments against the United States.


Nadal is already starting to think about Miami, which begins
Wednesday.


"I am just thinking of Miami and after that I will think of Davis
Cup," he said.


Ten-time Grand Slam winner Federer will play his first match in
Miami on Saturday against an unnamed opponent.


He has been ranked world number one since February 2004 and
recently reached 161 weeks at the top to break Jimmy Connors' 30
-year-old mark.


Federer enters the Miami tournament seeking his third consecutive
title and another championship would tie him with Andre Agassi
who won in 2001, 2002 and 2003.


Federer and Nadal will both get first round byes, giving them
some extra days rest. The men's and women's draws will be
announced Monday afternoon.

