

Pakistan Monday told the international community not to interfere
in a controversy over the sacking of the nation's top judge by
President Pervez Musharraf.


Musharraf, a key US ally, suspended chief justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9 and referred him to appear before a
judicial panel on charges of misconduct and abuse of power.


The United States called Friday on Pakistani authorities and
their opponents to show the "utmost" restraint after anti-
government street protests turned violent and police ransacked a
television station.


"As far as the judicial reference is concerned, it is sub judice.
We do not expect comments from the international community about
that," foreign ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam told a weekly
briefing.


"There have been comments by media of course and also by some
human rights organisations and bodies. What I would say is that
this is a matter which is sub judice," Aslam said.


"I cannot comment on that and we will not like others to comment
on it."


When her attention was drawn to comments by US Assistant
Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Richard
Boucher on the issue on Thursday, she said he was answering a
question and did not offer the comment on his own.


Boucher told reporters during a visit to Islamabad that the
judicial row was a "sensitive matter and obviously needs to be
"handled carefully".


"Yes he said that it is a sensitive situation and it needs to be
handled with care, yes that is right," Aslam said.


"It involves Pakistan's judiciary and this I don't think is a
comment that in any way implies interference in our internal
affairs, especially when he did not offer this comment on his
own."


US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said later Thursday
that the judicial crisis was a "matter of deep concern" that
should be settled "in a way that is completely transparent and in
accordance with Pakistan's laws."


The following day McCormack said protesters and the government
should both "exercise the utmost degree of restraint".


New York-based Human Rights Watch and several media rights bodies
have spoken out against the sacking of Chaudhry -- who is due to
appear before a judicial panel again on Wednesday -- and a
subsequent crackdown on the media.


On Thursday a group of 70 British lawyers, including Prime
Minister Tony Blair's wife, said reports of the "humiliating
treatment of the chief justice of Pakistan" was causing "great
international unease."

