

South African Deputy President Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka and Russian
Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov agreed Monday to work together on
developing nuclear and space technology as they met in Pretoria.


The two countries also agreed to foster closer working links in
the fields of astronomy, defence and peaceful use of nuclear
energy, they told reporters after their talks.


"We focused (during the meeting) on areas of co-operation in
high-tech areas, nuclear, space technology, enhancing of co-
operation of South African institutions involved in these areas,"
Mlambo-Ngcuka said.


"We are also interested in joint ventures that will facilitate
technology acquisition after the meeting," she added.


Fradkov arrived in South Africa, the third stop on his African
tour, on Saturday after visiting Namibia and Angola.


His visit came a month after Moscow's representatives led by
Natural Resources Minister Yuri Trutnev agreed to help Pretoria
in mining and generating nuclear power.


Russia agreed in February to assist South Africa, a Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty signatory, to build its second nuclear power
station.


Mlambo-Ngcuka and Fradkov also established a Joint South Africa-
Russia Business Council in an effort to increase co-operation in
business between the two countries whose trade relations now
standing at 420 million US dollars.


"We hope this would lead to increased interaction and bring trade
to a new level. Everything we do at this stage is aimed
specifically at increasing economic co-operation to new heights,"
Fradkov told reporters.


Mlambo-Ngcuka said the council would help South Africa in
expanding volumes of its export to Russia, especially in vehicles
and chemicals which "were still low".


Fradkov's visit to the country follow that of President Vladmir
Putin in September where he signed a series of agreements with
President Thabo Mbeki, with Russia agreeing to supply nuclear
fuel to South African's Cape Town nuclear plant until 2010.


Although Moscow was one of the main backers of South Africa's
ruling African National Congress (ANC) party during the former
apartheid era, Western Europe has been the main trade partner for
South Africa since the end of whites-only rule 12 years ago.


Fradkov was expected to pay a courtesy visit to Mbeki later
Monday.

