

The giant Airbus A380 superjumbo landed on US soil for the first
time Monday, with large crowds cheering the twin arrivals of the
world's biggest passenger plane in New York and Los Angeles.


The 555-seat double-decker behemoth with a wingspan the size of a
football pitch, descended smoothly through grey, overcast skies
to touch down at Los Angeles International Airport at
approximately 9:28 am (1628 GMT).


A few minutes earlier, another Airbus A380 carrying 500 guests
flying from Frankfurt landed at New York's Kennedy Airport.


The arrival of the trans-atlantic test flights marked a symbolic
milestone in the troubled multi-billion dollar development of the
A380, which has been hit by delays and several cancelled orders.


The plane was designed to challenge the dominance of Boeing's
747, but so far no US carrier has placed an order for it.


Analysts say the plane's size is ill-suited to most US airlines,
many of whom are opting instead to invest in smaller aircraft.


However Airbus is confident the A380's superior fuel efficiency
to the 747 will eventually catch on with airlines operating
popular long-haul routes.


The arrival of the A380 in Los Angeles was greeted with cheers by
several hundred spectators gathered inside the airport for a
welcoming ceremony and was accompanied by fanfare from a brass
band as four helicopters buzzed overhead.


Authorities said thousands of aviation enthusiasts were expected
to take up vantage points around the airport to catch a glimpse
of the aircraft.


While in Los Angeles the plane will undergo tests of its airport
maneuverability and terminal parking capability.


Los Angeles World Airports, the agency that manages LAX, has
spent more than 49 million dollars on a variety of projects to
accommodate the A380 and will spend another 72 million dollars in
coming years.


Improvements are being made to runways, taxiways and boarding
gates to accommodate the aircraft, which weighs 562 tons and has
a wingspan of more than 261 feet. The plane is capable of
carrying more than 800 passengers in an all economy-class
configuration, and 555 in a standard three class set-up.


The flight is being conducted in conjunction with Qantas Airways
of Australia, which has ordered 12 A380s and may buy eight more.


The first A380 for commercial use is scheduled to be delivered to
Singapore Airlines in October. Delivery had been planned for last
year but was delayed because of production problems, notably with
the aircraft's electrical cabling.


Singapore Airlines has ordered 19 A380s and has an option to
acquire six additional planes.


Airbus has to date received 166 firm orders and purchasing
intentions for the A380 from 15 carriers. Boeing eclipsed Airbus
last year for the first time since 2000, winning 1,044 orders to
790 for its European competitor.


Monday's flights of the A380 came amid reports that both Airbus,
dominated by French and German interests, and Boeing could be
facing fresh challenges from China.


The Chinese cabinet said on Monday it had approved a plan to
build large passenger aircraft that analysts said could take on
Airbus and Boeing both domestically and on the world market.

