

Burkina Faso wants the International Court of Justice in The
Hague (ICJ) to settle its decades-long border dispute with Benin,
a cabinet minister said Monday.


"We (Burkina and Benin) are going to meet very soon ... to define
temporary measures while awaiting for the case to be referred to
the ICJ," Clement Sawadogo, the Burkinabe Minister for
Territorial Administration, told state television.


He did not say when the case, involving a 68-square-kilometre
(about 40-square- mile) portion of land in southeastern Koualou
village, will be taken to the ICJ.


Fighting over the contentious piece of land often breaks out in
Koualou between citizens of the two countries.


In a bid to seek a diplomatic solution to their dispute, the two
countries created in 1980 a joint committee which reached "a
consensus" on a 285 kilometre (180-mile) stretch of a common
border, save for Koualou, said Sawadogo.


"A problem of interpretation" is at the centre of the
disagreement, he said adding that Benin "had shown its goodwill
to handle the issue in a concerted and peaceful way".


"We seek to take a common position so that this case is also
submitted to the Hague," the minister said.


Burkina Faso, formerly Upper Volta, wants to see a conclusive end
to the ongoing border disputes with its neighbours.


With an area of 274,100 square kilometres (170,300 square miles)
for its 13 million people, Burkina shares a 3,000-kilometre
border with Benin, Ivory Coast, Ghana, Mali, Niger and Togo.


The border problems Burkina Faso faces arises from the parcelling
out of part of its territory by the former colonial ruler French
to its neighbours, before independence in 1960.


A dispute with Mali over the 1,285-kilometre common frontier led
to fatal conflicts involving the two countries' armies between
1974 and 1985. An ICJ ruling settled the matter in 1986.


On March 14, Burkina and Niger decided to ask the ICJ to make a
ruling to clearly define their 650-kilometre (400 mile) common
border.

