

Dutch bank ABN Amro emerged on Monday as a hot takeover prospect
in the sights of British banking group Barclays, thought likely
to make an offer to create the fifth-biggest banking group in the
world.


Barclays was expected to say at any time if it planned to bid for
the Dutch group, which has big interests in emerging economies,
to create a financial giant capitalised at about 80 billion
pounds (120 billion euros, 160 billion dollars).


The price of shares in ABN Amro showed a gain of 7.62 percent to
29.37 euros at mid-day. Barclays stock gained 0.44 percent to
658.50 pence.


Analysts viewed a tie-up as being positive for ABN Amro which in
any case is under pressure from some of its shareholders which
want to break it up.


"After recent activist investors pushing ABN to break-up, a
merger with a highly respected bank as Barclays may not be
something they could refuse,"  Dresdner Kleinwort analysts James
Eden and Ian Gordon said in a research note.


Barclays said it would clarify its intentions before the London
stock exchange opened on Tuesday but it did not deny reports in
two British newspapers that the banks were in talks about a deal.


"Barclays notes the recent press speculation in relation to ABN
Amro. An announcement clarifying the position will be made before
open of business tomorrow," the bank said in a statement.


A takeover by Barclays of ABN Amro would create a group with a
market capitalisation of more than 160 billion dollars, making it
the fifth-biggest bank in the world behind US-based Citigroup,
Bank of America, China's ICBC and HSBC.


The combined enterprise would have 47 million clients and employ
220,000 people in 50 countries.


"We think a bid is credible but that the probability is
relatively low," Collins Stewart analyst Alex Potter wrote in a
note to clients.


Analysts said that Barclays could also face competition for ABN
Amro from other banks, including BNP Paribas or Societe Generale
in France, US-based Wachovia and Spain's Banco Santander Central
Hispano. They are all thought to be interested in acquiring parts
of the ABN Amro empire.


"The value of ABN broken up is more than the whole. Royal Bank of
Scotland or Wachovia could buy ABN's US and Treasury businesses,
while Santander could buy its Brazilian and European retail
banking businesses," said Magnus Mathewson, banks analyst at
stockbroker Hitchens Harrison.


ABN Amro is facing break-up demands from hedge fund investors The
Children's Investment Fund (TCI) and Toscafund, which want
management to sell assets separately to make profits for
shareholders.


A deal between Barclays and ABN Amro was first mooted two years
ago but was torpedoed by the chief executive of the Dutch bank,
Rijkman Groenink.


Groenink had insisted then that cultural, legislative and
governance differences meant that ABN Amro would be the "junior"
partner in the deal and would be "absorbed" by Barclays.


The market capitalisation of Barclays is currently 47 billion
pounds while ABN Amro is 36 billion pounds, meaning the
difference in size persists.

