

President Pervez Musharraf in an interview shown Monday promised
to hold elections on time and denied that he would impose a state
of emergency amid a row over his removal of Pakistan's top judge.


Military ruler Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9 and ordered him to face charges of
misconduct and abuse of power before the nation's supreme
judicial council.


The move has sparked violent protests, including in the capital
Islamabad on Friday when police fired tear gas and rubber bullets
at protesters and stormed the office of private Geo television.


"Elections will be held on time, this is my assurance to the
nation," Musharraf told Geo in the interview, excerpts of which
were broadcast late Monday.


Opposition parties have said Musharraf removed Chaudhry to ensure
there would be no legal challenges to his planned re-election by
the current parliament and his retention of his dual role as
president and army chief.


"Emergency... There is no such situation and I will never use the
army at all. This is not their job. They are doing their training
and they will continue (this)," Musharraf added.


"There is no emergency situation and emergency will not be
declared."


Rumours about the possible declaration of a state of emergency
swirled in Pakistan during Friday's protests, which coincided
with Chaudhry's second appearance before the panel hearing the
allegations against him.


Musharraf also said that the police inspector who allegedly led
the attack on Geo's office was missing, the channel said on its
website.


It said the interview was carried out by a journalist whose
flagship show was taken off the airwaves last week on the orders
of Pakistan's electronic media regulator.


Four more Pakistani judges quit Monday in protest at Chaudhry's
removal as resentment grew over the controversy.


The suspended chief justice has denied any wrongdoing. At the
weekend restrictions on his movement were reduced after he said
he was under virtual house arrest, a claim rejected by the
government.

