

Reigning two-time world figure skating men's champion Stephane
Lambiel, who skipped the Europeans because of lack of motivation,
said Monday he felt no pressure defending his title and was now
skating for himself.


"For me, this is a good challenge, but I have no pressure. I
already proved who I am and what I can do and not," the 21-year-
old Swiss skater said on the eve of the world championships in
Tokyo.


"It's just about pleasure to show the people the new
choreography, the new work. I worked very hard this season,"
Lambiel said.


Lambiel said he had no regrets about skipping the European
championships.


"The fire that was in me in recent years is just not there
anymore," he said of his decision to shun the Europeans. "It's
taken me some time to understand that but today I have accepted
it."


Looking relaxed ahead of the Tokyo event, Lambiel said it was
difficult to find new goals after winning the Olympic silver
medal and the world championships twice.


"My goal is to skate for myself, because I already have an
Olympic medal, I already have two titles in the world
championships, so that was more about what is my goal now," said
Lambiel.


"Now I feel really good without any pressure for this
competition. Just being on the ice is already a big motivation
for me. I have nice costumes, nice music and nice choreography.
I'm happy to be here," Lambiel said.


But he warned he was by no means giving up the title.


"Of course I'm here to do my best, to have the best possible
result. I'm very well prepared, everything went well and I'm in
good shape. It's a question of how it's going to work on that
particular day when I need to have my best performance, but it's
not possible to be always successful," he said.


The Swiss skater is expected to face a strong field led by Brian
Joubert of France, 22, who swept all before him this season to
win the Grand Prix final and lifted his second European title.


Daisuke Takahashi of Japan, runner-up to Joubert at the GP final,
is polishing his quadruple toe loop, with which he won the NHK
Trophy, the nationals and the Winter Student Games.


American Evan Lysacek, who collected the world bronze in 2005 and
2006, is counting on his combination of a quadruple-toe loop and
triple-toe loop, which won him his first US national championship
and his second Four Continents title this year.


Lambiel, however, misses the chance to compete with Yevgeny
Plushenko of Russia, who has taken the season off.


"We did shows together in Switzerland. It was nice. We had no
fight. But if he wants to come back, it's okay for everyone. I
think figure skating needs Yevgeny. He already did a nice job for
figure skating, so why not coming back?" Lambiel said.

