

Andrew Flintoff has said he wants to "redeem himself" and
promised an end to his boozy off-field antics after being
stripped of the England vice-captaincy here at the World Cup.


The star all-rounder was dropped for England's 51-run win over
Canada on Sunday after reports, which he confirmed, that he had
been one of a number of players who had stayed out drinking until
the early hours of Saturday morning following the six-wicket
defeat by New Zealand on Friday.


"It's something which shouldn't have happened and I've suffered
the consequences," Flintoff told reporters at England's team
hotel here Monday.


"I've missed games in past through injury, which is one thing,
but to have the feeling of being left out for these reasons is
something I'm obviously upset about and something which I never
ever want to repeat again."


Flintoff, who was fined along with team-mates James Anderson, Ian
Bell, Jon Lewis, Paul Nixon and Liam Plunkett, was also said to
have needed help in reaching dry land after capsizing a pedalo.


"There's no secret we had a few drinks on Friday," a shamefaced
Flintoff added. "I'm not disputing it happened and it's something
I'm embarrrassed about, ashamed of and I'm suffering the
consequences of it.


"The ins and outs of it, there was water involved and there was a
pedalo as well. It's something I don't want to go into in too
great detail."


However, asked if he'd endangered himself, Flintoff replied: "I
don't think my life was in danger, no."


Looking ahead, Flintoff - who has received warnings in the past
regarding his off-field behaviour - insisted he would become a
changed man.


"Events like these are never going to happen again and I can
(now) get back down to playing cricket... my friends and family,
I feel I've let them down.


And he insisted he had no qualms with the decision of coach
Duncan Fletcher to drop him for the Canada match and the move by
officials to strip him of his role as Michael Vaughan's deputy.


"I respect the coach's decision. I've apologised to the coach and
captain and everybody else as well."


He added the impact of his actions hit home when the team bus
left without him for the Canada match.


"It was a horrible feeling. I enjoy playing cricket for England,
I want to perform for England and I want to continue to do that.
Not being able to play for reasons such as these is something I
can't describe."


The drinking exploits of Flintoff and his team-mates came to
light after fans who'd seen the players out at a nightclub near
England's hotel contacted British newspapers to tell them what
they'd witnessed.


However, Flintoff insisted he didn't feel betrayed by supporters.
"We're the ones who've let people down.


"The timing of what happened, having been beat by New Zealand in
such a big game, and with a game on Sunday, it was the timing of
what we did we've got to look at rather than worrying about other
people reporting what had happened."


Flintoff, England's captain during their 5-0 Ashes series
thrashing in Australia which Vaughan missed through injury,
added: "They (the fans) have  showed us loyalty and they stuck by
us, especially during the series in Australia.


"Somehow I've got to repay that loyalty and the only way I can do
that is by performing on the pitch and making sure nothing like
this happens again off it."


And he said thoughts of having squandered the chance of ever
becoming England captain again were now the last thing on his
mind. "I can't look at that at this moment in time."


Flintoff is available for England's next Group C match, against
Kenya, on Saturday.


"When I get back on the field that can be the first step, not
making right what I've done, but showing a bit of faith and
redeeming myself, albeit if I get picked on Saturday to play
against Kenya.


"We're in a World Cup, we've got a chance to get through to the
next round if we win on Saturday.


"For me the stakes have gone up a little bit more. I desperately
want to perform. I feel I let the team down over the weekend, I
feel I've got something I want to give back to them."

