

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice consulted with her major
power counterparts Monday amid signs of differences over how to
respond to the creation of a Palestinian unity government.


Rice held a conference call with the top diplomats of the
European Union, United Nations and Russia and then went into a
meeting with EU and German foreign ministers expected to focus on
the Palestinian issue, her spokesman Sean McCormack said.


He described the discussions as "taking stock of the situation"
following the swearing in over the weekend of a new Palestinian
government grouping the Western-backed Fatah part of president
Mahmud Abbas and the radical Islamic movement Hamas, which
Israel, the US and EU consider a terrorist group.


The United States, EU, UN and Russia -- the so-called Quartet of
Middle East peace mediators -- have imposed a devastating aid
boycott on the Palestinian government since Hamas gained control
of the authority after defeating Fatah in elections early last
year.


McCormack confirmed Monday that Washington wanted to maintain the
aid embargo as long as Hamas continues to reject Quartet demands
that the government formally recognize Israel and renounces
violence.


He notably criticized as "disturbing" a speech by Hamas Prime
Minister Ismail Haniya reaffirming his government's support for
"resistance" against Israel.


But McCormack said the United States would consider dealing with
non-Hamas "individuals" in the new government, possibly including
the independent finance minister, Salam Fayyad, and Abbas' new
security chief, Mohammed Dahlan.


"We are not going to suspend contact solely based on an
individual's membership in the national unity government," he
said.


"We are going to take a look at that on a case-by-case basis," he
said, adding that no such contacts were currently being planned.


The US stance signals a rare rift between the administration of
President George W. Bush and Israel, which has ruled out contacts
with any member of the unity government, though it will continue
dealings with Abbas.


At the same time Russia and some European leaders have shown
signs of wanting to ease the isolation of the new Palestinian
government, in which Hamas holds the prime ministership and 11
other portfolios while Fatah and independents control 13.


McCormack played down the policy difference with Israel and its
Quartet partners.


"Each individual state is going to have its own contact policy"
with the new government, he said.


"What we would hope is that the contact policy is consistent with
the foundational principles for peace laid out" by the Quartet,
he said.


Rice meanwhile met here with EU foreign policy chief Javier
Solana, EU external relations minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner and
German Foreign Minister Frank- Walter Steinmeier to discuss a
range of issues including the new Palestinian government,
McCormack said.

