

Hearts captain Craig Gordon criticised his team for the lack of
fight they showed in the dismal 4-0 home defeat by Dundee United
at the weekend but blamed some of the club's problems on behind
the scenes issues.


The goalkeeper is the latest Hearts player to speak out about
disharmony at the club since controversial Lithuanian owner
Vladimir Romanov took over.


Previous captain Steven Pressley was forced out after criticising
the millionnaire owner, but now his replacement Gordon has spoken
of his discontent.


"It was one of the worst results of my career and something that
was very disappointing for me personally," Gordon said of the
Dundee United humiliation.


"I'm still hurting from the result. To get beat at home by any
team is disappointing for Hearts, but to go down in the manner we
did when there wasn't a lot of fight put up towards the end, that
was the most disappointing thing for everybody that was at
Tynecastle.


"I think that has possibly been coming for some time. Things
haven't been great behind the scenes, I think Stephen Frail said
so after the game.


"The players take a responsibility and I take responsibility as
captain, but I think there are plenty of other people that should
stand up and take responsibility for that as well."


Assistant coach Frail has revealed divisions among the squad see
players sit and eat in their own nationalities. Gordon has tried
to integrate the many foreign players, but he said: "It's very
difficult to make people do things they don't want to do.


"It has been tried on many occasions over a number of weeks but
it's very difficult to keep that up.


"One week you split people up at the dinner table then the next
week they come down and they sit back in their groups. You can
only do so much.


"We do have a big number of players here and that could possibly
contribute to the fact there isn't that tight-knit group.


"It is something we really do have to work at and each player has
to take responsibility to make that work."


Gordon has not been able to raise his concerns with majority
shareholder Romanov.


"He's never here so it's very difficult to talk to him," the
Scotland keeper said. "You can talk to people and you don't know
whether they are going to listen to you or not."


The 24-year-old admits this season has been a let-down after
winning the Scottish Cup and finishing second in the Scottish
Premier League a year ago.


Saturday's rout under interim head coach Anatoly Korobochka
leaves Hearts fourth in the SPL, six points behind Aberdeen.


"It's been a bit of a disappointment. We had a very good team
last year that looked to push the Old Firm.


"But for one reason or another there have been a lot of changes
this season and perhaps that has had an adverse effect on the
team."

