

President George W. Bush Monday warned it was too early for US
troops to "pack up and go home" from Iraq, on the fourth
anniversary of a war clouded by pessimism and political angst on
the home front.


Bush also said in a televised address from the White House, after
speaking to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki, that his new US
plan to pacify Iraq would take months to show results.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home," Bush said,
four years to the day after American troops launched operations
to depose Saddam Hussein.


"That may be satisfying in the short run, but I believe the
consequences for American security would be devastating," Bush
said, warning that a US departure would spark chaos in Iraq which
would engulf the region.


"The terrorists could emerge from the chaos with a safe haven in
Iraq to replace the one they had in Afghanistan, which they used
to plan the attacks of September 11, 2001," Bush said.


A new US-led Baghdad security effort which will see 21,500 extra
troops pour into Iraq would not yield immediate success, Bush
warned, as the unpopular war entered its fifth year.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," Bush said in an
eight-minute statement from the White House's Roosevelt Room,
which broke into regular programing on US television networks and
was also carried by cable news channels.


Bush also paid tribute to US soldiers and argued that despite
still raging on, the Iraq war had yielded considerable progress.


"Today the world is rid of Saddam Hussein and a tyrant has been
held to account for his crimes," Bush said.


"Nearly 12 million Iraqis voted in free elections under a
Democratic constitution that they wrote for themselves. And the
democratic leaders are now working to build a free society that
upholds the rule of law."


"We also hold in our hearts the good men and women who have given
their lives in this struggle. We pray for the loved ones they
have left behind."


Despite Bush's warnings, a new poll on Monday showed already
skeptical US public opinion on Iraq had soured further, with only
32 percent of Americans saying they favored the war, compared to
72 percent just after it began.


Nearly half of those questioned in the survey by Opinion Research
Corp. for CNN said they strongly opposed the war. Four years ago
only one in five said they were strongly against it.


And despite recent claims by the Bush administration and top
generals that the month-old US troop surge was beginning to work,
another poll told a story of Iraq skepticism.


Only 18 percent of those polled had confidence in US and
coalition troops, while 78 percent opposed their presence, 69
percent said their presence made security worse and 51 percent
said attacks on coalition forces were justified.


The poll, commissioned by the BBC, ABC News, ARD German TV and
USA contrasted with a similar survey two years ago when two-
thirds of Iraqis were more upbeat.


But in a British television interview Maliki, who spoke to Bush
Monday in a secure videoconference, insisted sectarian killing
had ended and blamed violence on Al-Qaeda, which he called "the
biggest threat" to Iraq.


Leaders of the Democratic majority in Congress were meanwhile
gathering for another week of bombarding Bush with political
attacks over the war.


By mid-week, the House of Representatives was due to debate
Bush's 124 billion dollar funding request for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


Democrats last week inserted a clause calling for the withdrawal
of US combat troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest,
but Bush has vowed to veto any such legislation if it makes it to
his desk.


"We think that is an approach that is conducive to defeat. It is
a recipe for failure, not for victory," Snow said on Monday.


Asked to describe a recipe for victory, Snow at one point grew
testy, telling a reporter pushing him on the issue to "zip it."
He later apologized and called that comment "inappropriate."


The Senate last week voted down a similar attempt by the
Democratic leadership intended to bring troops home by the end of
March next year.


In Iraq Monday, a string of coordinated car bombs and mortar
attacks killed 15 people and wounded dozens more in the
ethnically-volatile oil hub of Kirkuk.


Another eight people were killed in violence elsewhere.


Anti-war demonstrators planned to hold at least a thousand
candlelight vigils around the United States.

