

Rebels in the remote Afar region on the Ethiopian-Eritrean border
have claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of five Europeans
released last week in an interview on Eritrean state media.


Armed men claiming to be from the Afar Revolutionary Democratic
Unity Front (ARDUF) made their statement in a broadcast on
Eritrean television late Sunday, including the first pictures of
the release of the European hostages.


"The main reason we took the hostages is because the TPLF
(Ethiopia) claims that ARDUF has been wiped out, and we needed to
expose the regime's false propaganda and declare our existence,"
an unnamed ARDUF spokesman said in the Afar language.


"ARDUF is still fighting and will go on fighting."


The 20-minute interview included the first footage of the five
European hostages being released last Tuesday in Eritrea.


It showed the three men and two women shaking hands with and
waving to about a dozen armed men in desert military fatigues
before being led away by Afar elders.


The five were then shown boarding an Eritrean military
helicopter.


The report made no mention of eight Ethiopians who accompanied
the British embassy-linked group captured in Ethiopia's northeast
desert on March 1 and still missing.


Eritrea has already said that the group was kidnapped by
separatist rebel group ARDUF, which opposes the division of the
Afar people among Ethiopia, Eritrea and Djibouti. ARDUF reached a
peace deal in 2003 with Addis Ababa but a dissident wing of the
group is still active.


The Ethiopian government on Monday denied that Afar rebels were
behind the abduction despite the Eritrean television pictures,
and once again laid the blame on Eritrea.


"The outcomes of our investigations show that Eritrean
intelligence has been involved," Foreign Minister Solomon Abebe
told a news conference.


"The reports about ARDUF are categorically unfounded. Afar people
have no reason to get involved in such an act."


Ethiopia and Eritrea fought a bitter territorial war between 1998
and 2000 and are still deeply at odds over their border.


Eritrea has strongly rejected Ethiopian accusations that it
masterminded the kidnapping.


During Monday's news conference, Solomon said Ethiopia had
launched a diplomatic offensive to help free the Ethiopian
captives.


Heads of missions of various countries and representatives of
international and regional organisations met with top foreign
ministry officials on Monday in Addis Ababa, he said.


"Members of the (UN) Security Council should push and pressure
the Eritrean regime to accept the safe release of the eight
Ethiopians," he said, adding that his government "will not take
war as an option."


In Ethiopia, heads of the four leading religious groups on Sunday
called for the release of the Ethiopians and said they feared
that tensions could be revived between the neighbouring
countries.


"The fact that the kidnapping had taken place very near the
Eritrean border is cause to be apprehensive of fresh disputes
between the two countries.


"It can yet be another hurdle in the way of the peace efforts
being exerted for years now," said heads of the Ethiopian
Orthodox, Catholic, and Evangelical churches, along with the
Islamic Affairs Council, in a statement broadcast on state
television.

