

Brilliant goalkeeping by Zimbabwean Washington Arubi could not
prevent African Champions League title holders Al-Ahly of Egypt
reaching the third round at the weekend.


Serial scorer Emad Moteab gave the five-time champions an early
lead in Cairo and the fate of Highlanders was sealed after 59
minutes when fellow striker Flavio Amado struck a second.


The 2-0 win for the 'Red Devils' followed a goalless first leg in
Bulawayo and earned Ahly a showdown with Mamelodi Sundowns of
South Africa in the pick of the eight final qualifying ties.


Former title holders FAR Rabat and Wydad Casablanca of Morocco,
ASEC of Ivory Coast, Esperance of Tunisia, JS Kabylie of Algeria
and TP Mazembe Englebert of the Democratic Republic of Congo also
advanced.


But Egyptian joy at the success of Ahly was tempered by the
elimination of another Cairo club, Zamalek, who could only draw
2-2 with Al-Hilal after suffering a two-goal first leg loss in
Sudan.


Individual honours went to Mazembe striker Mputu Mabi, whose hat-
trick against AS Adema of Madagascar was his second in four
Champions League outings this year.


Ahly coach Manuel Jose from Portugal, who will decide this month
whether to sign a new contract, was relieved after Ahly overcame
unexpectedly dogged resistance from perennial poor travellers
Highlanders.


"There would have been a revolution in Egypt had we lost this
match. Our opponents were organised and there was a lot of
pressure on my players as supporters expected us to win after
drawing away," Jose told reporters.


Opposite number Methembe Ndlovu offered no excuses:
"Congratulations to Ahly. They were better than us and deserved
to win. I'm pleased by the way we played and Washington Arubi
deserves special praise."


Airborne Arubi prevented Anis Boujelbene heading Ahly in front
after only four minutes, but was powerless to stop Moteab
stabbing the ball into the net with 13 minutes gone at Cairo
International Stadium.


Highlanders had a lucky escape just before half-time when an
Ahmed Moussa header rebounded off the crossbar only for Angola
World Cup striker Amado to put the result beyond doubt.


Zimbabwean midfielder Farai Mujokoro failed to halt Hossam Ashour
and his pass found Amado, who displayed typical clinical
finishing when confronted by Arubi.


Although injury plagued Ahly midfield star Mohamed Barakat did
not start as expected, he replaced Osama Hosny after 74 minutes
and Jose must hope another star casualty, Mohamed Aboutraika,
recovers to face Sundowns next month.


The South African champions also triumphed 2-0 at home with an
early Josta Dladla goal settling nerves against Desportivo Maputo
of Mozambique and Surprise Morori adding a second deep in
stoppage time.


Sundowns progressed 3-1 on aggregate and coach Gordon Igesund and
his expensively assembled squad must now try and satisfy the
desire of club owner and mining magnate Patrice Motsepe to
conquer Africa.


ASEC, semi-final losers to Ahly last year, completed a double
over Kallon FC, the Sierra Leone club owned by Monaco striker
Mohamed Kallon, but did not impress when winning 2-1 in Abidjan
via Serge Wawa and Emmanuel Umoh goals.


Wydad Casablanca left it late to triumph 3-1 in Morocco against
Stade Malien of Mali whose goalkeeper was sent off at half-time
after an incident with a young spectator.


Rafik Abdessamad broke the deadlock after 72 minutes and Hakim
Ajraoui and Khalid Oumansour were also on target for the 1992
champions before Ligier Sama converted a last-minute Stade
penalty.


The other Moroccan contenders, FAR Rabat, had a tougher passage
as a 2-0 win over visiting AshantiGold of Ghana through Jawad
Ouadouch and Yassine Naoum goals took the tie to a penalty
shootout, won 7-6 by the home team.


Esperance signalled their strength by outclassing ZANACO of
Zambia 4-1 in Lusaka with Salama Kasdaoui scoring twice and the
twin-pronged Tunisian challenge continued as Etoile Sahel easily
disposed of Fello Star of Guinea.


Kabylie wiped out a two-goal first leg deficit by defeating nine-
man Mangasport of Gabon 3-0 in Algeria while Mabi-inspired
Mazembe won 4-1 in Kinshasa.

