

The world's biggest passenger plane, the double-decker 555-seat
Airbus A380 superjumbo, was well across the Atlantic on Monday on
a first and highly symbolic test flight to the United States.


One A380 was winging its way towards New York and another was
bound for Los Angeles to check how the cities' airports, which
have spent tens of millions of dollars upgrading to accommodate
the superjumbo, can handle a jet with a wingspan as long as a
football pitch.


Although the twin arrivals in the United States have generated
excitement among aviation enthusiasts, with thousands of
spectators expected to turn out in Los Angeles, the reception
from US carriers will remain lukewarm, analysts said.


The vast size of the plane, which can carry over 800 passengers
in an all- economy-class configuration, was ill-suited to most US
airports, they said.


Monday's flights however have major symbolic value for Airbus,
whose A380, the first of which is due to delivered in October
this year, is the lynchpin in its bid to overcome US archrival
Boeing's dominance in the jumbo jet market.


The flights of the problem-plagued A380 came amid reports that
both Airbus, dominated by French and German interests, and Boeing
could be facing fresh challenges from China.


The Chinese cabinet said on Monday it had approved a plan to
build large passenger aircraft that analysts said could take on
Airbus and Boeing both domestically and on the world market.


A first A380 took off before dawn on Monday from Toulouse-Blagnac
airport in southwestern France, where Airbus is headquartered,
bound for Los Angeles on the US west coast.


Once there, it will undergo tests of its airport maneuverability
and  terminal parking capability.


The flight is being conducted in conjunction with Qantas Airways
of Australia, which has ordered 12 A380s and has plans in
principle to buy eight more.


A second A380 left Frankfurt, Germany several hours later for
John F. Kennedy Airport in New York, carrying 500 passengers
invited by Airbus. At the controls will be Airbus test pilots as
well as pilots from the German carrier Lufthansa, which has
ordered 15 A380s.


From New York, the plane will fly to Chicago, returning to New
York on Tuesday and Frankfurt on Wednesday. It will then take off
for Hong Kong on March 24, stopping in Washington DC on March 25
and Munich, Germany on March 28 on its way back to Toulouse.


Stephen Costley, managing editor of Los Angeles-based aviation
journal SpeedNews, said that the arrival of the Airbus plane in
California would be "a huge event in the sense that the A380 is
the first of its kind and it will be the first time it has been
seen here."


"But most of the interest will be from aviation enthusiasts who
want to see it fly," he said.


Richard Aboulafia, an analyst with the Teal Group Corporation,
said the US arrival of the A380 was important from a practical
rather than a marketing standpoint.


"It doesn't have an awful lot of relevance for the North American
market except in the sense of compatability with North American
airports, in which it's crucial, especially LAX," he told AFP,
referring to Los Angeles airport.


Aboulafia noted that the two biggest US carriers, Delta and
American Airlines, had shown no interest in placing orders for
the A380 so far, and still did not have Boeing 747s in their
fleet, currently the world's largest passenger jet in service.


The size of the plane was ill-suited to the routes favoured by
most US carriers, analysts have said.


The first A380 for commercial use is scheduled to be delivered to
Singapore Airlines in October.


Delivery had been planned for the spring of last year but was
delayed because of production problems, notably with the
aircraft's electrical cabling.


Singapore Airlines has ordered 19 A380s and has an option to
acquire six additional planes.


Airbus has to date received 166 firm orders and purchasing
intentions for the A380, designed to compete with Boeing's
market-dominant 747 family, from 15 carriers.


Boeing eclipsed Airbus last year for the first time since 2000,
winning 1,044 orders to 790 for its European competitor.

