

US President George W. Bush warned Monday it was too soon for US
troops in Iraq to "pack up and go home" as the war slid into its
fifth year clouded by pessimism and political angst on the home
front.


Without ever using the word "victory," Bush said, after speaking
to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki and the top US military
commander in Iraq, that his new plan to pacify the war-wracked
country could show success in months.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home," Bush said,
four years to the day after he announced that American troops
were fighting to depose Saddam Hussein.


"That may be satisfying in the short run, but I believe the
consequences for American security would be devastating," Bush
said, warning that a US departure would spark chaos in Iraq which
would engulf the region.


"The terrorists could emerge from the chaos with a safe haven in
Iraq to replace the one they had in Afghanistan, which they used
to plan the attacks of September 11, 2001," Bush said in an
eight-minute televised speech.


The embattled president has vowed to veto an emergency war-
funding bill for Iraq and Afghanistan if it reaches his desk
still containing language, pushed by Democrats, that calls for US
forces to be out of Iraq by September 2008 at the latest.


In response, Bush warned against expecting easy or quick results
from a new US- led Baghdad-centered security effort which will
see 21,500 extra troops pour into Iraq to secure the strife-torn
capital and restive al-Anbar province.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," Bush said his
statement, which preempted regular programing on US television
networks and broadcast by cable news channels.


Democrats, who took over the US Congress in November elections
fueled by anger at the war, marked what they called "a series of
failures by the Bush administration" in planning and prosecuting
the war.


"Failure to plan for the occupation, failure to anticipate an
insurgency, failure to provide for our troops, and a failure to
level with the American people," Senate Majority Leader Harry
Reid said in a statement.


"As the Iraq war enters its fifth year, American troops are still
waiting for the Bush Administration to present a strategy that
will allow them to complete the mission so they can come home,"
he said.


Bush also paid tribute to the 3,200 US troops "who have given
their lives in this struggle" and argued that despite still
raging on, the Iraq war had yielded considerable progress.


"Today the world is rid of Saddam Hussein and a tyrant has been
held to account for his crimes," while Iraqis have held free
elections under a democratic constitution they wrote for
themselves, he said.


But a new poll on Monday showed already skeptical US public
opinion on Iraq had soured further, with only 32 percent of
Americans saying they favored the war, compared to 72 percent
just after it began.


Nearly half of those questioned in the survey by Opinion Research
Corp. for CNN said they strongly opposed the war. Four years ago
only one in five said they were strongly against it.


And despite recent claims by the Bush administration and top
generals that the month-old US troop surge was beginning to work,
another poll told a story of Iraq skepticism.


Only 18 percent of those polled had confidence in US and
coalition troops, while 78 percent opposed their presence, 69
percent said their presence made security worse and 51 percent
said attacks on coalition forces were justified.


The poll, commissioned by the BBC, ABC News, ARD German TV and
USA contrasted with a similar survey two years ago when two-
thirds of Iraqis were more upbeat.


But in a British television interview Maliki, who spoke to Bush
Monday in a secure video conference, insisted sectarian killing
had ended and blamed violence on Al-Qaeda, which he called "the
biggest threat" to Iraq.


Leaders of the Democratic majority in Congress were meanwhile
gathering for another week of bombarding Bush with political
attacks over the war.


By mid-week, the House of Representatives was due to debate
Bush's 124 billion dollar funding request for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


Democrats last week inserted a clause calling for the withdrawal
of US combat troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest,
but Bush has vowed to veto any such legislation if it makes it to
his desk.


The Senate last week voted down a similar attempt by the
Democratic leadership intended to bring troops home by the end of
March next year.


In Iraq Monday, a string of coordinated car bombs and mortar
attacks killed 15 people and wounded dozens more in the
ethnically-volatile oil hub of Kirkuk.


Another eight people were killed in violence elsewhere.


Anti-war demonstrators planned to hold at least a thousand
candlelight vigils around the United States.

