

The United States has approved a visa for Iranian President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to address the UN Security Council when it
votes on a new sanctions resolution to curb his country's nuclear
program, a senior US official said Monday.


"It's been approved," State Department spokesman Sean McCormack
said of the visa request submitted by the Iranian leader last
week ahead of the Security Council action expected in the coming
days.


McCormack was unable to say how many visas had also been approved
for members of Ahmadinejad's delegation.


Washington and Tehran have not had direct diplomatic ties since
the 1979 Islamic revolution in Iran.


McCormack reiterated US calls for the Iranian president to use
his speech to the Security Council to accept UN demands to
suspend Iran's uranium enrichment program and enter into
negotiations with the major UN powers.


"It would be an important moment for President Ahmadinejad in his
address to the Security Council to take the opportunity to say,
'We are going to negotiate, we do not seek confrontation, we seek
dialogue', and to accept the offer of negotiations that has been
put forth," McCormack said.


"We'll see whether or not he wants to go down the pathway of
confrontation or the pathway of dialogue," he said.


But Tehran has given no sign of yielding in its refusal of UN
demands that it suspend a uranium reprocessing program the West
fears is aimed at producing nuclear weapons but which Iran
insists is for peaceful energy purposes only.


Iran warned on Monday that it would make a "proportionate"
response to any new sanctions and that it was ready to pay the
price for pursuing its atomic ambitions.


"Iran is completely ready for both paths of cooperation and
confrontation and as there is a precedent for paying a price to
preserve its independence and rights, it is now ready to pay
these prices," said Abbas Araghchi, a deputy foreign minister.


The 15-member Security Council is due to meet Wednesday to review
a draft sanctions resolution against Iran agreed last week by the
body's five permanent members -- Britain, China, France, Russia
and the United States -- plus Germany.


A vote on the draft, which toughened sanctions already adopted by
the council in December, was likely to follow a few days later,
diplomats at the world body said.


The new draft would bar Iran from exporting arms and restrict the
sale or transfer to Tehran of equipment including battle tanks,
combat aircraft, attack helicopters and missiles.


It calls for a voluntary travel ban on additional officials
involved in Iran's "proliferation-sensitive" nuclear and
ballistic missile programs.


It also urges voluntary restrictions on "new commitments for
grants, financial assistance and concessional loans to Iran" as
well as extending an assets freeze to additional entities and
individuals linked to Iran's nuclear and missile programs.


The text would give Iran 60 days to comply with repeated UN
demands or face "further appropriate measures" (economic
sanctions but no military action) under Article 41 of the UN
Charter.


The United States says it wants a diplomatic solution to the
nuclear standoff, but it has never ruled out a military option.

