

Freed Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo told Monday how he
was bound by his hands and feet and feared execution at any
moment during his two-week hostage ordeal in Afghanistan.


Announcing the release of the veteran correspondent for the daily
La Repubblica, Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi said
Mastrogiacomo, 52, was recovering in a hospital in Lashkar Gah,
capital of southern Helmand province, but was in good health.


"I hope we can hold him in our arms very soon," the prime
minister said in an announcement carried live by the all-news
channel Sky TG 24.


The prime minister's office said Mastrogiacomo would board a
government plane "in the next hours" to return home, ANSA
reported.


"I'm very happy, I thank you all," Mastrogiacomo said over La
Repubblica's online television station from the hospital run by
the humanitarian group Emergency. "I knew you wouldn't abandon
me, and that gave me strength and courage."


Captured together with his driver and interpreter on March 4 in
Helmand, a Taliban stronghold, Mastrogiacomo was accused of
spying for Britain.


The interpreter Adjmal Nashkbandi was also freed Monday, the
Italian foreign ministry said, while the independent Pajhwok
Afghan News reported last week that his driver had been executed
on suspicion of spying.


Mastrogiacomo, dressed in a green caftan and beige turban, said:
"There were moments when I was really afraid of being killed from
one minute to the next."


His captors "sometimes" bound him hand and foot and held him in
15 different locations, the journalist said on La Repubblica's
online TV site.


"I feel really confused in my head, but I'm happy. I managed to
get out of it thanks to the help of the government, the foreign
ministry, of all my friends and colleagues," he said.


Mastrogiacomo's first words as he hugged Emergency founder Gino
Strada at the hospital were "I'm fine," the association Peace
Reporter said on its website.


His wife Luisella Longo was able to speak to him by telephone
from the Rome offices of La Repubblica shortly after his release,
media reports said.


A Taliban commander threatened last week to kill Mastrogiacomo if
a series of demands were not met by Monday evening, notably the
release of three figures of the extremist group in Afghan
government custody.


They also demanded that a date be set for Italy to withdraw from
Afghanistan its nearly 2,000 troops in NATO's International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF), a divisive issue for Prodi's
centre-left coalition that briefly brought down his government
last month.


A Taliban spokesman told AFP Sunday that Mastrogiacomo and the
interpreter had been handed to tribal elders pending a final deal
for their release.


Mastrogiacomo begged for efforts for his release in a recorded
message obtained by the Pajwohk news agency last Thursday.


"Please do something as they have only two days, from now. After
that they will kill us, please, please, only two days" said
Mastrogiacomo, according to the news agency.


Pajhwok, citing an audiotape message from a rebel commander, said
Mastrogiacomo was freed in exchange for five Taliban prisoners.

