

The Zimbabwe government brushed off fresh criticism Monday over
its crackdown on the opposition Movement for Democratic Change,
dismissing it as further evidence of mischief-making by the West.


After a senior opposition figure trying to leave the country was
beaten so badly he needed hospital treatment on Sunday, a fresh
round of condemnations against President Robert Mugabe's regime
came from the European Union, Britain and the United States.


However Harare again accused its critics of stirring up trouble
with "mischievous" and "political" statements, as well as siding
with the opposition by failing to denounce attacks on the
security forces last week.


The government has already threatened ambassadors with expulsion
on charges of interfering in Zimbabwean affairs.


"We find it disturbing in that we are not hearing anything on the
three women police officers who are struggling for their lives in
hospital and about three police officers who were badly beaten up
by the MDC," junior information minister Bright Matonga told AFP.


Matonga's comments came after the German presidency of the EU
expressed its outrage at Sunday's attack on MDC lawmaker Nelson
Chamisa who was picked up en route to the airport, from where he
was due to fly to Brussels.


Chamisa was in hospital under police guard, suffering from
ruptured kidneys. Allegedly beaten over the head with an iron
rod, he had learned Monday he would not lose his eye, his
spokesman William Bango told AFP.


A statement from Berlin said: "The EU presidency was outraged and
deeply concerned by the news of the arrest and brutal treatment
of the opposition MP Nelson Chamisa."


Meanwhile the head of an MDC breakaway faction, Arthur Mutambara,
was released from custody Monday after also being re-arrested
Saturday as he tried to fly to South Africa with a high court
judge saying he had no option but to release him as the attorney
general's office had not endorsed the arrest.


Mutambara was first arrested alongside chief MDC leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and dozens of other activists who were severely beaten
as they tried to stage an anti-government rally on March 11.


The United States said it would hold Mugabe personally
responsible for beatings sustained by opposition members.


"The United States condemns the government of Zimbabwe's
continued attacks on the political opposition, including
additional arrests, beatings and refusal to allow travel for
necessary medical treatment," said State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack.


"We hold President Mugabe personally responsible for these
actions."


Mugabe's government has accused its former colonial power Britain
and other Western governments of meddling in its domestic
affairs.


The spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair told a press
briefing Monday that African leaders must take the lead in
resolving the crisis in Zimbabwe.


"The important thing in terms of influencing events on the ground
is that this is seen as the Africans in the lead rather than us,"
Blair's official spokesman said.


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has been steadily mounting amid an economic meltdown with
inflation standing at 1,730 percent and four out of five people
out of work.


The country's economic meltdown is stoking tensions, with fuel
prices skyrocketing by 200 percent over the past two weeks.


Mugabe however has remained defiant in the face of virulent
criticism, blaming the unrest on the MDC and its critics.


"We have given too much room to mischief-makers and shameless
stooges of the West," Mugabe said in a speech over the weekend.


"Let them and their masters know we shall brook none of their
lawless behaviour," he said.

