

President Pervez Musharraf in an interview shown Monday promised
to hold elections on time and denied that he would impose a state
of emergency amid a row over his removal of Pakistan's top judge.


Military ruler Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar
Muhammad Chaudhry on March 9 and ordered him to face charges of
misconduct and abuse of power before the nation's supreme
judicial council.


The move has sparked violent protests, including in the capital
Islamabad on Friday when police fired tear gas and rubber bullets
at protesters and stormed the office of private Geo television.


"Elections will be held on time, this is my assurance to the
nation," Musharraf told Geo in the interview, excerpts of which
were broadcast late Monday.


Media outlets here have speculated that he may seek to delay
general elections that are due late this year or in early 2008.


Opposition parties have also said Musharraf removed Chaudhry to
ensure there would be no legal challenges to his planned re-
election by the current parliament and his retention of his dual
role as president and army chief.


"Emergency... There is no such situation and I will never use the
army at all. This is not their job. They are doing their training
and they will continue (this)," Musharraf added.


"There is no emergency situation and emergency will not be
declared."


Rumours about the possible declaration of a state of emergency
swirled in Pakistan during Friday's protests, which coincided
with Chaudhry's second appearance before the panel hearing the
allegations against him.


Musharraf, who had tussles with the judicial system after seizing
power in a 1999 coup, again defended his removal of the chief
justice but admitted there had been problems in the way it had
been handled.


"Decisions have been taken under constitutional, legal norms,
correct and timely," he said.


"The problem occurred in its tactical handling at the ground
level. Problem area number one -- political forces jumped in.
Look at the flags there were flags on the chief justice's car.
They politicised the issue."


Musharraf also said that the police inspector who allegedly led
the attack on Geo's office was missing, the channel said on its
website.


It said the interview was carried out by a journalist whose
flagship show was taken off the airwaves last week on the orders
of Pakistan's electronic media regulator.


Four more Pakistani judges quit Monday in protest at Chaudhry's
removal as resentment grew over the controversy.


Justice Jawad Khawaja of the Lahore High Court submitted his
resignation, citing Chaudhry's removal and the police action
against protesters, Supreme Court Bar Association president Munir
Malik said.


Separately the advocate general of southern Sindh province, Anwar
Mansoor, confirmed the resignations of three judges.


Lawyers and hardline Islamic parties have called for further,
nationwide protests when Chaudhry appears again before the
Supreme Judicial Council on Wednesday.


A protest rally in Islamabad will be led by Qazi Hussain Ahmad,
chief of Pakistan's main alliance of religious parties, alliance
spokesman Shahid Shamsi told AFP.


The suspended chief justice has denied any wrongdoing. At the
weekend restrictions on his movement were reduced after he said
he was under virtual house arrest, a claim rejected by the
government.

