

US authorities warned companies Monday they can never deal with
terrorists after fruit giant Chiquita agreed to a hefty fine for
paying protection money to Colombian paramilitaries.


Chiquita Brands International admitted to the US government in
2003 that it had been paying the money for years to the United
Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), a right-wing paramilitary
group on the US list of terrorists.


Under a settlement confirmed by the US Department of Justice
Monday, the Cincinnati-based company agreed to pay a fine of 25
million dollars and to bolster its internal compliance and ethics
program.


Chiquita pleaded guilty before Judge Royce Lamberth of the US
District Court in Washington to one count of engaging in
transactions with a designated global terrorist group.


Judicial officials paid credit to Chiquita's cooperation in their
investigation but stressed the gravity of the offense.


"Funding a terrorist organization can never be treated as a cost
of doing business," US Attorney Jeffrey Taylor said in a
statement.


"American businesses must take note that payments to terrorists
are of a whole different category. They are crimes," he said.


Chiquita, through its wholly owned Colombian subsidiary C.I.
Bananos de Exportaction S.A. (Banadex), paid the AUC in exchange
for protection in the banana-producing areas of Uraba and Santa
Marta, Colombia.


In the past, the company had also made payments to leftist rebels
of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and National
Liberation Army (ELN), both also listed as terror groups, US
prosecutors said.


Chiquita, which sold Banadex in 2004, said it had voluntarily
disclosed that its subsidiary "had been forced to make payments
to right- and left-wing paramilitary groups in Colombia to
protect the lives of its employees."


"The payments made by the company were always motivated by our
good-faith concern for the safety of our employees," Chiquita
chief executive Fernando Aguirre said in a statement last week.


"Nevertheless, we recognized -- and acted upon -- our legal
obligation to inform the DoJ of this admittedly difficult
situation."


According to the US investigation, Chiquita made over 100
payments to the AUC amounting to more than 1.7 million dollars,
masked in its corporate records as contributions for "security."

