

The long-awaited murder trial of music producer Phil Spector was
to begin with jury selection here Monday, four years after a
B-movie actress was found shot dead at his Los Angeles mansion.


Spector, 66, a reclusive musical genius who pioneered the unique
"Wall of Sound" recording technique, is accused of shooting dead
Lana Clarkson at his imposing neo-gothic estate on February 3,
2003.


The first steps of what is expected to be a two to three-month-
long trial were to begin at the Los Angeles Superior Court when a
first group of 75 prospective jurors appears in court.


The jurors are among a pool of 300 who will have to complete
questionnaires detailing what they already know about the case,
the most high-profile criminal trial in Los Angeles since the
1995 acquittal of O.J. Simpson.


After preliminary questioning this week, the potential jurors are
then expected to be told to return to court on April 16, when
attorneys for both sides will begin questioning them, court
officials said.


Spector, who has been free on 1 million dollars bail, was
expected in court for Monday's hearing.


Prosecutors say Spector, famed for his work with The Beatles,
Tina Turner, The Righteous Brothers and The Ronettes, killed
Clarkson after meeting the statuesque blonde at the Hollywood
nightclub where she worked as a hostess.


The trial has been repeatedly delayed due to legal wrangling and
scheduling conflicts, most notably when Spector's lawyers
unsuccessfully argued to have potentially damning statements
excluded from the trial.


Spector is alleged to have told police officers who arrived at
his imposing mock chateau immediately after the shooting: "I
didn't mean to shoot her."


Spector's limousine driver, Adriano De Souza, testified to a
grand jury in 2004 that on the night of Clarkson's death he heard
something, then saw Spector emerge with a revolver in his hand
and say: "I think I killed somebody."


Spector, who a few weeks before the shooting described himself as
"relatively insane" and tortured by "devils inside me" has
strongly denied murder, telling Esquire magazine in 2003 that
Clarkson shot herself.


"She kissed the gun," Spector said in the interview. "I have no
idea why -- never knew her, never even saw her before that night.
I have no idea who she was or what her agenda was."


Clarkson, who was inspired by blonde Hollywood sex symbol Marilyn
Monroe and collected Monroe memorabilia, starred in movies such
as 1987's "Amazon Women on the Moon" and 1991's "The Haunting of
Morella."


Jean Rosenbluth, a former federal prosecutor who is now a
professor of law at the University of Southern California in Los
Angeles, said district attorneys would present a strong case
against Spector.


"I went to some of the pretrial hearings, and from what I've
heard, it has a pretty strong case," Rosenbluth told AFP. "If I
was the prosecutor, I would let the evidence speak for itself, it
seems pretty good."


The introduction of cameras to the court-room -- which were
notably absent from the 2005 Michael Jackson child molestation
trial -- would encourage showmanship from Spector's flamboyant
lawyer, Bruce Cutler, Rosenbluth said.


Cutler is most famous for defending organized crime figures, most
notably New York mafia boss John "The Teflon Don" Gotti.


"He's a real showman. He will make it entertaining. He's very
good at spinning a story that makes his client look sympathetic,
even though it might not be very relevant," Rosenbluth added.

