

France and four European partners on Monday laid the cornerstone
of a nuclear research reactor that will test the longevity of
materials used in a future generation of nuclear power stations.


The Jules Horowitz reactor, to be built in Cadarache near
Marseille in southeastern France, "will provide us with updated
expertise that is vital both for France and the whole of Europe,"
France's Junior Industry Minister Francois Loos said at the
inauguration ceremony.


"It is all the more strategically important since the European
research reactors currently in services are to be gradually shut
down over the next 10 years," he said.


Loos said the new reactor was an essential research instrument
for the European nuclear sector and would help Europe meet its
target of cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020.


The reactor will not only replace an ageing French research
facility that will be nearly 50 years old by the time the new one
is completed in 2014, it could also replace reactors in Belgium,
the Netherlands, Norway and the Czech Republic that are
approaching obsolescence.


France's utility Electricite de France and the nuclear energy
group Areva, as well European partners Spain, the Czech Republic,
Belgium and Finland, signed an agreement Monday formalising their
participation in the project.


France's Atomic Energy Commission will pay for half of the
500-million euro reactor. Its European partners will pick up
another 20 percent of the tab, as will EDF. Areva will cover the
last 10 percent.


Other potential partners, notably in Japan, have expressed an
interest in investing, according to the project's director,
Daniel Iracane.


The 100-megawatt reactor will make it possible to recreate the
physical and chemical environment of current and future nuclear
energy reactors.


Scientists will study the capacity of steel and zirconium -- used
in the construction of the reactors and the casing for fuel rods
-- to resist high temperatures and the constant bombardment of
neutrons. New materials such as ceramics will also be tested.


France derives around three-quarters of its electricity from
nuclear power, the highest ratio of any country in the world, and
many of its reactors are nearing the end of their usefulness.


The 58 French reactors currently in service will begin to age out
of operation beginning in 2015.


Construction of France's first so-called "third-generation"
European Pressurized Water Reactor (EPR), located in Flamanville
near the English Channel, is slated to begin by the end of the
year.


The EPR design was developed in the 1990s by Germany's Siemens
and France's Framatome-ANP, a subsidiary of Areva.


It reportedly uses 17 percent less fuel than the types of reactor
currently operating in France, and is designed to generate power
for 60 years.


Cadarache will also be the site of a multibillion-dollar
experimental nuclear fusion research project, aimed at emulating
the power of the sun to provide limitless, clean energy.


The facility is to be built over a decade starting 2008.


If it is successful, a prototype commercial reactor will be
built, and if that works, fusion technology will be rolled out
across the world.

