

France and China are due Tuesday to sign a groundbreaking
extradition treaty, despite concerns raised by the Asian giant's
dismal record on prisoners' rights and widespread use of the
death penalty.


France is set to become the second European country, after Spain
in 2005, to reach a bilateral extradition deal with Beijing,
which is also in talks with Portugal and Australia.


The treaty is to be signed in Paris by Dai Bingguo, China's first
deputy foreign minister, and French Justice Minister Pascal
Clement who finalised the negotiations during a trip to Beijing
in January.


To come into force, it will need to be ratified by the French
parliament, which will be re-elected in June following the April-
May presidential election.


Rights groups have accused the government of President Jacques
Chirac of taking a soft line on China's rights record, in the
name of boosting business and strategic ties with the country --
which it has declared a priority.


Amnesty International France has urged Paris not to ratify the
text because of "continuing reports of serious violations in
China, including the use of the death penalty and abusive forms
of arbitrary detention, torture and cruel, inhumane and degrading
treatments."


The Paris-based League of Human Rights (LDH) and the
International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (FIDH) have also
issued a joint appeal to the French parliament to block the
treaty's adoption.


"The commercial interests of France do not justify the slightest
leniency towards China," the groups said in a joint statement,
describing China's penal system as "notorious for being one of
the worst in existence".


But the French justice ministry repeated Monday that the treaty
would mark a "great step forwards" and would "create a legal
framework where before there was none."


"China has agreed to lay down in black and white that there would
be no extraditions in cases which could involve the death
penalty, and for any offences based on politics or opinion."


The ministry argues that the number of extradition requests in
both directions was likely to shoot up, "since China is opening
up: there are the Beijing Olympics in 2008, the Shangahi
Universal Exhibition in 2010."


Amnesty France has rejected the government's arguments, pointing
to a lack of judicial independence in China, saying there is "no
certainty that a Chinese citizen extradited one day with the
clearest guarantees will not be sentenced to death at a later
date on a different charge."


According to Amnesty, 68 types of offence are punishable by death
in China. The exact number of executions in China is a state
secret but Chinese academics have publicly estimated the state
puts up to 10,000 people to death every year.


China's rights record caused waves in the French presidential
campaign in January, after Segolene Royal, the Socialist
frontrunner, was attacked for praising the speed of the Chinese
justice system during a visit to the country.

