

World oil prices extended losses on Monday as market attention
switched to worries about possible weaker demand for crude in the
United States following last week's production meeting of OPEC,
analysts said.


However in its monthly report, the Centre for Global Energy
Studies said prices were set to jump over the coming months after
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided against
an increase to its crude output at a ministerial meeting last
Thursday.


In London on Monday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery dropped 17 cents to 60.13 dollars per barrel in
electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, shed 43 cents to 56.68 dollars per barrel in
electronic deals before the official opening of the US market.


"Crude futures were a little lower, extending losses from Friday
following OPEC's decision to leave current supply curbs unchanged
and amid concerns that troubles in the US housing sector could
spread into the broader domestic economy and dent demand for
energy," Sucden analyst Michael Davies said. "However, many
analysts suggest that oil prices could draw support from strong
demand for gasoline (petrol) ahead of the summer driving season
in the US," he added.


The gasoline situation is in focus ahead of the peak-demand
season, beginning May 31, when US drivers throng roads during
their summer vacations.


The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries last
Thursday decided to keep its daily output target at 25.8 million
barrels, arguing that global supply levels were healthy.


"By failing to increase oil supply, OPEC has set the scene for
another upward spiral in oil prices over the summer," the Centre
for Global Energy Studies said in a report published Monday.


"Having cut output at the start of the winter, OPEC always risked
taking too much oil off the market at a time when demand for its
exports was strong and that is exactly what has happened.


"Plunging temperatures and slower than expected growth in non-
OPEC output have depleted stocks and left crude oil in short
supply," CGES added.


OPEC, which supplies more than one third of the world's oil, had
cut production at its two previous meetings in October and
December.

