

An Iraqi minister called Monday for the international community
to deliver promised financial assistance to help rebuild his war-
ravaged country, and demanded a greater Iraqi role in managing
funds.


"We have to speak frankly: the donations received by Iraq are
less than what has been promised," said Iraqi Minister of
Planning and Development Cooperation Ali Ghalip Baban.


He was speaking at the opening of the Iraq Reconstruction Forum,
a multilateral meeting on Iraq's reconstruction in Turkey's
biggest city Istanbul.


Baban, speaking through an interpreter, declined to give figures
and did not say which countries had failed to keep their pledges.


But he said the 22 countries and international organisations
participating in the gathering should seek a "remedy" and be
"more attentive to the priorities of the Iraqi government".


"We cannot maintain the old methods," he stressed. "The Iraqi
government must be given a more important role in the selection
of projects and the handling of the funds."


At a UN-sponsored gathering in New York last week, Iraqi Vice
President Adel Abdel Mahdi laid out an ambitious five-year plan
of economic revival and urged the world community to respond with
aid and debt relief.


He pledged that Baghdad would also fight corruption and keep to
rigorous budgets.


The Iraqi authorities have been criticised for corruption,
inefficient bureaucracy and budget failures as well as for
failing to put all international aid for reconstruction into use.


"The Iraqi government is quite capable of handling the task of
reconstruction and development," Iraq's Water Resources Minister
Abdel Latif Jamal Rashed insisted in Istanbul.


"My appeal is: deal with Iraqi institutions instead of bringing
in non- governmental organisations and other institutions."


The participants in the gathering included Australia, Britain,
Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States as well as
international organisations such as the United Nations, the Arab
League and the World Bank.

