

French left-wingers and human rights activists cried foul on
Monday over the arrest in Brazil of a fugitive former Italian
revolutionary who had previously been granted refuge in France.


Cesare Battisti, 52, was arrested on Sunday in Rio de Janeiro
after a joint operation by Brazilian, French and Italian police.


The involvement of the French police stoked controversy in the
country where he had lived for nearly 15 years from 1990 under a
policy instituted by socialist president Francois Mitterrand
allowing Italian left-wing extremists to stay in France if they
abandoned armed struggle.


Convicted in absentia in Italy for four murders, he went into
hiding in 2004 as France's current centre-right government
prepared to sign his extradition order.


France's Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy confirmed late Sunday
that French police had provided Brazil with "intelligence" on
Battisti's whereabouts "in line with its duty.


"It is quite normal for French police to collaborate with... the
judiciary of a democratic European state, Italy," he said, adding
that "Interpol obliges the various police forces around the world
to supply any information they may have on wanted individuals".


But Green Party deputy Moel Mamere accused Sarkozy -- the right-
wing frontrunner for the April-May presidential election -- of
"sacrificing Battisti's head on the electoral altar".


Mamere said Sarkozy had "long known where Cesare Battisti was --
this was yet another electoral stunt."


The Paris-based League of Human Rights (LDH) charged that
"Sarkozy's France has gone back on its word, it has chosen to
hand over those it had taken in", arging that Battisti had been
denied a fair trial.


Olivier Besancenot, French presidential candidate for the
Revolutionary Communist League, said he planned to campaign for
Battisti, a former member of the Armed Proletarians for
Communism, to be granted an amnesty.


And the Socialist mayor of Paris Bertrand Delanoe also said he
was "concerned about the respect for the law and the word given
by France", saying "the trial that established his guilt is
extremely contested".


Separately, the European Court of Human Rights revealed Monday
that it had rejected a suit brought by Battisti in 2005 against
the French extradition procedure.


The court rejected Battisti's claim that he had been denied a
fair trial, ruling that he had "unequivocally given up the right
to be present for his trial" by fleeing his home country.


Italian Justice Minister Clemente Mastella on Sunday hailed the
"brilliant operation" leading to the former revolutionary's
arrest and said he hoped for Battisti's "speedy return" to Italy.


Like their French counterparts, some Italian leftists, such as
Russo Spena, the head of the Refoundation Communists' Senate
group, questioned the motives behind the arrest.


Charging that the European justice system "has become an arena
for fighting terrorism," Spena told the left-leaning La
Repubblica daily: "With the excuse of fighting Al-Qaeda, we bring
home an old subversive from another time."


Battisti's "personality has changed a lot over the years from
what I read and have heard from those who know him," Spena added.

