

World oil prices rebounded on Monday, reaching almost 61 dollars
a barrel in London trade, as stock markets firmed and a closely-
watched report forecast a jump in crude futures in coming months.


Earlier Monday, they had extended losses as market attention
switched to worries about possible weaker demand for crude in the
United States following last week's production meeting of OPEC,
analysts said.


But in its monthly report, the Centre for Global Energy Studies
said prices were set to jump over the coming months after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided against an
increase to its crude output at a ministerial meeting last
Thursday.


In London on Monday, the price of Brent North Sea crude for May
delivery climbed 67 cents to 60.97 dollars per barrel in
electronic trading.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, gained 33 cents to 57.44 dollars per barrel in
pit deals.


Crude futures won a lift from rebounding stock markets. Wall
Street shares rocketed higher Monday as investors cheered several
new merger and acquisition deals, traders said.


Sucden analyst Michael Davies said prices had fallen earlier
Monday "amid concerns that troubles in the US housing sector
could spread into the broader domestic economy and dent demand
for energy."


Looking ahead, he added that oil prices could draw support from
strong demand for gasoline (petrol) ahead of the summer driving
season in the United States.


The gasoline situation is in focus ahead of the peak-demand
season, beginning May 31, when US drivers throng roads during
their summer vacations.


The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries last
Thursday decided to keep its daily output target at 25.8 million
barrels, arguing that global supply levels were healthy.


"By failing to increase oil supply, OPEC has set the scene for
another upward spiral in oil prices over the summer," the Centre
for Global Energy Studies said in a report published Monday.


"Having cut output at the start of the winter, OPEC always risked
taking too much oil off the market at a time when demand for its
exports was strong and that is exactly what has happened.


"Plunging temperatures and slower than expected growth in non-
OPEC output have depleted stocks and left crude oil in short
supply," CGES added.


OPEC, which supplies more than one third of the world's oil, had
cut production at its two previous meetings in October and
December.

