

The Zimbabwe government brushed off fresh criticism Monday over
its crackdown on the opposition Movement for Democratic Change,
dismissing it as further evidence of mischief-making by the West.


After a senior opposition figure trying to leave the country was
beaten so badly he needed hospital treatment on Sunday, a fresh
round of condemnations against President Robert Mugabe's regime
came from the European Union, Britain and the United States.


However Harare again accused its critics of stirring up trouble
with "mischievous" and "political" statements, as well as siding
with the opposition by failing to denounce attacks on the
security forces last week.


The government has already threatened ambassadors with expulsion
for interfering in Zimbabwean affairs.


"We find it disturbing in that we are not hearing anything on the
three women police officers who are struggling for their lives in
hospital and about three police officers who were badly beaten up
by the MDC," junior information minister Bright Matonga told AFP.


Matonga's comments came after the German presidency of the EU
expressed its outrage at Sunday's attack on MDC lawmaker Nelson
Chamisa who was picked up en route to the airport, from where he
was due to fly to Brussels.


Opposition colleagues said he had suffered serious injuries to
his head and one of his eyes and had to be hospitalised.


A statement from Berlin said: "The EU presidency was outraged and
deeply concerned by the news of the arrest and brutal treatment
of the opposition MP Nelson Chamisa."


The head of an MDC breakaway faction Arthur Mutambura, was re-
arrested Saturday as he tried to leave the country on charges of
inciting public violence. He was appearing in court Monday
afternoon after his lawyer filed an urgent petition for his
release.


Mutambura was first arrested alongside chief MDC leader Morgan
Tsvangirai and dozens of other activists who were severely beaten
as they tried to stage an anti-government rally on March 11.


The United States said it would hold Mugabe personally
responsible for beatings sustained by opposition members.


"The United States condemns the government of Zimbabwe's
continued attacks on the political opposition, including
additional arrests, beatings and refusal to allow travel for
necessary medical treatment," said State Department spokesman
Sean McCormack.


"We hold President Mugabe personally responsible for these
actions."


Mugabe's government has accused its former colonial power
Britain, and other Western governments of meddling in its
domestic affairs.


The spokesman for British Prime Minister Tony Blair told a press
briefing Monday that African leaders must take the lead in
resolving the crisis in Zimbabwe.


"The important thing in terms of influencing events on the ground
is that this is seen as the Africans in the lead rather than us,"
Blair's official spokesman said.


The French foreign ministry meanwhile said it was up to the
Zimbabwean authorities "to enable the democratic expression of
opposition parties and the freedom of movement of their leaders."


Opposition to 83-year-old Mugabe, in power since independence in
1980, has been steadily mounting amid an economic meltdown with
inflation standing at 1,730 percent and four out five people out
of work.


The country's economic meltdown is fueling tensions, with fuel
prices skyrocketing by 200 percent over the past two weeks.


Mugabe however has remained defiant in the face of virulent
criticism, blaming the unrest on the MDC and its critics.


"We have given too much room to mischief-makers and shameless
stooges of the West," Mugabe said in a speech over the weekend.


"Let them and their masters know we shall brook none of their
lawless behaviour." he said.

