

Germany on Monday said NATO should be consulted about US plans to
locate a missile shield in Europe after Foreign Minister Frank-
Walter Steinmeier warned against a new arms race on the
continent.


"We have repeatedly warned against going it alone because we are
trying to make it clear that we should strive to keep Europe
together on this issue," government spokesman Ulrich Wilhelm told
a press briefing.


"This should be discussed carefully and calmly within NATO," he
added.


Wilhelm said Washington's plans to place missile defence
equipment in Poland and the Czech Republic by bilateral agreement
with the two former communist states should also be discussed
between NATO and Cold War-era foe Russia.


Russia sees the plans to place 10 missile interceptors in Poland
as an act of intimidation and this risks further straining
already fraught ties between Warsaw and Moscow.


Chancellor Angela Merkel wants to avoid tension between Russia
and the European Union, of which Germany currently holds the
presidency, and at the weekend asked Polish leaders to talk to
both NATO and Moscow about their plans.


Steinmeier wrote in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung's Sunday
edition: "We do not want a new arms race in Europe.


"There is no 'old' and 'new' Europe and nobody should try to
drive a wedge between us for short-term gain.


"Europe's safety is not something that can be divided up."


Steinmeier's spokesman Martin Jaeger on Monday said the
consequences of expanding the US missile defence system to
eastern Europe should be weighed.


"We should look at the potential consequences of our arms policy,
for example, will this be seen as an invitation to countries in
the Middle East for escalation."


Kurt Beck, the head of the Social Democrats, who are part of
Merkel's ruling coalition, warned: "We do not need any new
missiles in Europe."


The United States insists that its aim is to protect Europe from
missile attack by rogue nations like Iran.


On a visit to Berlin last week, top Pentagon official Lieutenant
General Henry Obering warned that "the Iranians are aggressively
carrying out (missile) tests."


Obering added: "The American missiles are purely defensive....
Even if we tried we could not intercept Russian missiles from
Poland."


Despite Germany's calls, NATO last week ruled out getting
involved in the US negotiations with Poland and the Czech
Republic.

