

Matti Vanhanen has held power in Finland since 2003, leading with
a shy, austere style that has seen him become one of the Nordic
country's most popular prime ministers.


A former journalist handed the reins of government after just 10
weeks' experience as a cabinet minister, Vanhanen was expected to
remain at the helm after his Centre Party won Sunday's
legislative elections by a hair.


Appointed defence minister in April 2003, no one in Finland saw
him as a possible leader, but less than three months later he
replaced fellow Anneli Jaeaetteenmaeki as prime minister when she
resigned after an election campaign scandal.


At the time, few commentators believed Vanhanen had the necessary
temperament and political weight to lead the country.


But he impressed early on, with his direct and uncomplicated
style and a reserved, unflappable manner.


He has sought to embrace his "Finnishness" in a country where
people like to be thought of as quiet and unassuming and simple
pleasures include saunas and walks in the forest.


A teetotaller who dislikes the taste of alcohol, he says his
favourite pastimes include chopping wood and home improvement
tasks.


"Quite shy. Severe, and even extremely dry. Not a great speaker.
Quite simply he's an ordinary bloke," says Bjoern Mansson, an
editorialist for Finland's Swedish-language daily
Hufvudstadsbladet.


But the architecture and history lover has also been in the
spotlight for his private life. In 2005 he divorced from his air
hostess wife, with whom he has two children.


His life as a bachelor has sparked intense media interest, rare
for Finland where the media tends to respect the private lives of
politicians.


The prime minister famously ended a recent relationship with a
divorced mother of three by sending her a brief text message.


Tall and thin with square eyeglasses, Vanhanen's exterior exudes
calm. To the surprise of many, he was voted Finland's sexiest man
by readers of a women's magazine in 2005.


His biggest success as prime minister has been his economic
record: his government has been able to cut taxes and meet its
target of creating 100,000 jobs, reducing the jobless rate to
under eight percent from nine percent in 2003.


Vanhanen was born on November 4, 1955 in the industrial town of
Jyvaeskylae in central Finland. He has been a member of the
Centre Party, formerly the Agrarian Party, since 1976, and
chaired the party's youth wing from 1980 to 1983.


He entered local politics in 1981, but switched to journalism in
1985 to become editor of a local newspaper and later editor-in-
chief.


Vanhanen earned a master's degree in political science in 1989
before being elected to parliament in 1991.


He rose steadily through the Centre Party ranks and became deputy
chairman of the party's parliamentary group in 1994.


In 2002 and 2003 Vanhanen, a eurosceptic seeking a minimum of EU
integration, represented Finland's parliament on the European
Union body that drafted the bloc's constitution.


The French and Dutch rejections of the text in 2005 led to calls
for a Finnish referendum on the constitution. But Vanhanen
rebuffed those calls and instead backed a vote on the document in
the Finnish parliament.


"Personally I think the treaty is too complicated to be put to a
referendum," Vanhanen told AFP in June 2005.


The Finnish parliament ratified the document in December 2006.


Finland's stewardship of the EU presidency in the second half of
2006 brought Vanhanen closer to Brussels.


"I am a pragmatist on European affairs," he remarked.


Vanhanen ran in the country's January 2006 presidential race but
came third in the first round, far behind incumbent Tarja
Halonen, who went on to secure a second six-year term.

