

Hackers are selling fake US-based credit cards on the Internet
for as little as one dollar, and a full set of data for a fake
identity for as low as 14 dollars, a study by a Web security firm
said Monday.


A semiannual report by California-based Symantec found threats in
cyberspace are growing, particularly in the area of data theft
and "targeted malicious code for the purpose of stealing
confidential information that can be used for financial gain."


"Cyber criminals continue to refine their attack methods in an
attempt to remain undetected and to create global, cooperative
networks to support the ongoing growth of criminal activity," the
Internet Security Threat Report noted.


Symantec said it tracked for the first time the trade of stolen
confidential information and captured data being sold on
"underground" servers.


These are networks used by hackers and shadowy criminal
organizations to sell stolen information, including social
security numbers, credit cards, personal identification numbers
(PINs), and e-mail address lists.


Some 51 percent of all these servers in the world were located in
the United States.


On the networks, US-based credit cards with a verification number
were available for between one and six dollars while an identity,
including a US bank account, credit card, date of birth and
government issued identification number, was available for
between 14 and 18 dollars, Symantec said.


Symantec estimated that 4,943 bank cards were sold over these
networks in the last six months of 2006, mostly from US-based
banks.


Also being sold on the networks: Online bank accounts with a
9,900-dollar balance for 300 dollars; PayPal accounts for 10 to
500 dollars and a list of 2,900 e-mail addresses for three
dollars.


Much of the credit card and bank data is stolen by infecting
computers to allow the hackers to gain access to passwords and
other sensitive information.


Another method is to trick consumers into giving up user
information by fake e-mails asking for updated information, a
technique known as "phishing."


In other cases , hackers can sometimes break into computer
networks of governments or businesses to steal key data.

