

The United States and South Korea began a final lap of talks on
Monday to flesh out a free trade deal ahead of an end-March
deadline, with several sensitive issues still unresolved.


Chief US negotiator Wendy Cutler and her South Korean counterpart
Kim Jong-hoon met in Washington to tackle outstanding issues
linked to critical sectors such as automobiles, agriculture,
pharmaceuticals and textiles.


Top agriculture officials met in Seoul simultaneously to focus on
specific farm issues.


"I'll make my utmost efforts to narrow differences as much as
possible on the most sensitive issues this week," Kim said.


"If some issues are still hanging in the balance this week, both
sides will try to tackle those issues next week in Seoul," South
Korea's Yonhap news agency quoted him as saying.


The two sides have agreed to take up with the top leadership to
resolve outstanding and sensitive issues that might not be
resolved this week as they race to meet a tight deadline.


US Trade Representative Susan Schwab and her South Korean
counterpart Kim Hyun- chong could meet next week in a bid to
clear outstanding hurdles and the intervention by President
George W. Bush and South Korean leader Roh Moo-Hyun has also not
been ruled out, reports say.


If sealed, the US-South Korea free trade agreement would be the
biggest such pact since the 1993 North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA).


Bush's powers to fast-track trade agreements expire in June. That
gives US negotiators up to March 31 to present a deal for a
mandatory 90-day congressional review that would then be subject
to just an outright yes-or-no vote without amendments.


The United States and South Korea had closed three chapters of
the prospective deal -- on customs, competition and government
procurement while seven other chapters -- general services,
financial services, market access, transparency,
telecommunications, e-commerce and standards -- remain on the
table.


Both parties have expressed confidence they could achieve the
target.


"We've come a long way, we still have a way to go but I firmly
believe we can get there by the end of March," Cutler said on
Friday.

