

Twelve candidates are to stand in the first round of the French
presidential election to be held on April 22.


Here are brief profiles of the contenders and their platforms:


THE BIG FOUR:


Nicolas Sarkozy, 52. The interior minister and candidate of the
governing rightwing Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) party is
advocating a "clean break" with the politics of the past. A
plain-talking politician who says he is "results-driven," Sarkozy
is calling for loosening up labour laws and cutting taxes. The
son of a Hungarian immigrant and a French mother of Greek Jewish
origin has stirred controversy over his proposal to create an
immigration and national identity ministry.


Segolene Royal, 53. The candidate of the main opposition
Socialist Party wants to become France's first woman president. A
mother of four who served as an adviser to late president
Francois Mitterrand, Royal says France is in the throes of a
"crisis of democracy" and in need of "profound change." Her
100-point presidential programme calls for increasing the minimum
wage, raising small pensions and providing interest-free loans
for students.


Francois Bayrou, 55. The leader of the small Union for French
Democracy is promising to breach the left-right divide and govern
from the centre with a coalition. A teacher who takes pride in
his rural roots, Bayrou is proposing a constitutional ban on
budget deficits and cuts to social charges to encourage job
creation.


Jean-Marie Le Pen, 78. The leader of the far-right National Front
stunned the nation when he qualified for the run-off against
Jacques Chirac in the 2002 election. His anti-immigrant, anti-
Europe platform calls for cutting off social benefits for
foreigners and halting European integration, although he would
retain the euro.


THE LEFT:


Olivier Besancenot, 32. A postman running for the Revolutionary
Communist League for the second time, Besancenot wants to make
job firings illegal as part of a series of proposals to bolster
workers' rights.


Jose Bove, 53. The anti-globalisation crusader became popular
after he attacked a McDonald's outlet in 1999 as part of his
campaign against "la malbouffe" or bad food. Making his first bid
for the presidency, the sheep farmer is calling for an "electoral
uprising against economic liberalism" and casts himself as a
"spokesman for those who have no voice."


Marie-George Buffet, 57. The Communist Party candidate is making
her first bid at the presidency with a platform that calls for
increased wages, building 600,000 new social housing units and
scrapping the ceiling on taxation that benefits the wealthy.


Arlette Laguiller, 66. Six-time candidate for the Trotskyist
Workers' Struggle (Lutte Ouvriere), the former typist is
advocating an anti-capitalism platform that would ban profit-
making companies from firing staff.


Gerard Schivardi, 56. A builder and mayor of the southern town of
Mailhac, Schivardi is the candidate of the far-left Workers'
Party. He calls for the defence of public services in rural areas
and wants France to pull out of the European Union.


Dominique Voynet, 48. The Green Party candidate and former
environment minister has pieced together an "ecology contract"
that calls for reducing France's dependency on nuclear power,
banning dangerous pesticides and fertilizers and opposing
genetically modified crops. A senator, she is making her second
bid for the presidency.


THE RIGHT:


Philippe de Villiers, 58, leads the nationalist Movement for
France party. Born Viscount Phillippe Le Jolis de Villiers de
Saintignon, the Eurosceptic politician last year released a book
warning of the "Islamization" of France.


SINGLE-ISSUE CANDIDATE:


Frederic Nihous, 39. The candidate of the Hunting, Fishing,
Nature and Traditions party is committed to defending the rural
way of life. A lawyer, he won less than 5 percent of the vote in
the 2002 election.

