

Wall Street shares rocketed higher Monday as investors cheered
several new merger and acquisition deals a day before the Federal
Reserve opens a two-day meeting on interest rates.


The Dow Jones Industrial Average leapt 101.82 points (0.84
percent) to 12,212.23 at 1624 GMT.


The Nasdaq composite meanwhile had risen 21.07 points (0.89
percent) to 2,393.73 while the broad-market Standard and Poor's
500 spiked 13.11 points (0.95 percent) to 1,400.06.


Despite the strong gains, some analysts warned that trading could
prove volatile as concerns persist about the US mortgage market
and the health of the world's largest economy.


With no economic news to feed on, investors focused on the latest
merger headlines.


ServiceMaster, which makes garden treatment products and home
care cleaning solutions, announced it had agreed to be taken over
by the Clayton, Dublilier and Rice investment fund for 5.5
billion dollars, the latest deal involving a private equity fund.


Under the deal's terms, ServiceMaster's shareholders will receive
15.62 dollars in cash for each outstanding ServiceMaster share.
The price marks a premium of 16 percent over the firm's closing
share price on Friday.


ServiceMaster's shares were up a hefty 1.68 dollars (12.5
percent) at 15.15 dollars.


Traders said news reports suggesting British bank Barclays has
approached Dutch financial group ABN Amro with a 155-billion-
dollar merger proposal had also boosted sentiment.


Such a tie up would create the fifth largest banking group in the
world, analysts said. Both banks have significant commercial
operations in the United States.


Barclays said it would clarify its intentions before the London
stock exchange opened on Tuesday, but has not denied reports in
British newspapers that the banks were in talks about a deal.


US bank stocks were higher. Citigroup was up 48 cents at 50.01
dollars while Bank of America gained 52 cents at 50.14 dollars.


"Investors continue to embrace a fresh round of merger and
acquisition activity as well as hope for some bullish leanings
from Wednesday's Fed policy statement," analysts at Briefing.com
said in a market update.


Traders said they were preparing for the Fed's two-day interest
rate meeting, which opens Tuesday, with most analysts expecting
the central bank to keep the US short-term rate anchored at 5.25
percent.


Despite concerns about inflationary pressures, a housing market
slowdown, and a moderation in US growth, economists widely expect
the Fed to keep rates on hold and wait for a better economic
picture to emerge in the weeks ahead.


The federal funds rate has been unchanged since August, when the
Fed halted a string of 17 quarter-point increases. But
policymakers have warned in recent meetings that they are
tracking inflation and could hike rates again to keep prices in
check.


Boeing Co.'s shares were up 23 cents at 90.23 dollars as the US
aviation giant said it welcomed a new challenge planned by China
in the market for big passenger planes.


China announced it had approved a plan to build large passenger
aircraft which analysts said could take on Boeing and European
company Airbus.


Lower oil prices also gave the market a boost, traders said.


New York's main oil futures contract, light sweet crude for
delivery in April, was down three cents at 57.08 dollars per
barrel.


Bond prices fell as the yield on the 10-year US Treasury bond
increased to 4.575 percent from 4.545 percent Friday and that on
the 30-year bond rose to 4.722 percent from 4.695 percent.


Bond prices and yields move in opposing directions.

