

High-profile coaches Otto Pfister and Patrice Neveu were
celebrating Monday after handsome African Confederation Cup
second round triumphs.


German Pfister watched Al-Merreikh of Sudan thrash AS Coton Tchad
of Chad 5-0 in Omdurman to eradicate memories of a shock two goal
first leg loss in N'Djamena two weeks ago.


And Frenchman Neveu was equally happy as Ismailia of Egypt ran
riot against Ajesaia of Madagascar to win 6-1 with Omar Gamal,
Mohsen Abougreisha and Sayed Moawad scoring two goals each in the
Red Sea resort after a drawn first leg.


Merreikh and Ismailia are former winners of African Football
Confederation (CAF) competitions and there was mixed results for
four other clubs who have conquered the continent.


Club Sportif Sfaxien of Tunisia advanced with ease, Union Douala
of Cameroon are set to join them, but Daring Club Motema Pembe of
the Democratic Republic of Congo and unlucky Mouloudia Alger of
Algeria were eliminated.


Sfaxien owed a 4-0 home win over Satellite of Guinea to striker
Blaise Kouassi and midfielder Issam Mardassi, who scored a brace
each to set up an intriguing clash against Issia Wazi of Ivory
Coast.


Wilfried Bony scored a hat-trick and Lancina Serifou was on
target twice as African rookies Issia crushed Bukavu Dawa of the
Democratic Republic of Congo 5-0 in Abidjan having taken a two-
goal lead into the return match.


Union Douala had a home fixture with Textil Pungue of Mozambique
postponed 24 hours, but progress to the final qualifying round
appears a formality after establishing a three-goal first leg
advantage.


The exit of 1994 African Cup Winners Cup title holders Motema
Pembe came as no surprise as they entered a goalless second leg
against Benfica Luanda of Angola in Kinshasa trailing by three
goals.


Mouloudia, whose 1976 African Champions League success was the
first by an Algerian club, were in an equally dire situation
against Kwara United of Nigeria having lost 3-0 away and
finishing with eight players.


However, the north Africans were in no mood for surrender and
early strikes from Zemit and Badache rocked the visitors, who
appealed in vain for a second half penalty before Sidibe added a
third goal 13 minutes from full-time.


Having performed the hardest part of the recovery mission
superbly, Mouloudia slipped by losing the penalty shootout 6-5
against opponents who could hardly contain their relief.


Etoile Filante of Burkina Faso edged US Ouakam of Senegal 4-3 in
another tie settled by a penalty shootout after 1-0 home wins
with captain Moussa Dione scoring the lone second leg goal for
Ouakam in Dakar.


ASO Chlef, the other Algerian challengers, surprised ENPPI of
Egypt 1-0 in Cairo thanks to a Mohamed Boukhari goal midway
through the first half. The first encounter ended goalless.


African debutants ATRACO of Rwanda, Gaouafel Gafsa of Tunisia and
Mwana Africa of Zimbabwe advanced to the next round with Dolphins
of Nigeria and Hassania Agadir of Morocco while Astres Douala of
Cameroon had a walkover.

