

Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed Monday Japan will maintain
pressure on North Korea, refusing to back down after the United
States loosened sanctions on the communist state at nuclear
talks.


Japan has taken the hardest line of any player in the North
Korean nuclear crisis, in part due to an emotionally charged row
over Pyongyang's past abductions of Japanese nationals.


North Korea reportedly renewed its call on Monday for Japan to be
excluded from the six-nation talks.


"The priority is for North Korea to take measures towards
abolishing its nuclear programme as it has promised," Abe said in
parliament.


"We need to continue watching North Korea so that it entirely
abolishes its nuclear programme in the end."


Authorities in Macau said Monday they would release 25 million
dollars in frozen North Korean funds -- one of Pyongyang's key
demands to begin disarming.


The United States earlier announced a compromise hours before
six-nation talks on North Korea's nuclear drive resumed in
Beijing.


Japan has refused to fund last month's breakthrough agreement at
the six-way talks under which North Korea will receive badly
needed fuel aid in exchange for disabling a reactor.


Japan had been a top contributor to a previous deal in 1994 that
collapsed. In Japan's absence, South Korea has said it will
provide the first tranche of aid under the latest agreement.


Abe's government has maintained sweeping sanctions on North
Korea, including a ban on all imports from the impoverished state
imposed after its nuclear test in October.


Abe has built his career talking tough on North Korea over its
kidnappings of Japanese nationals in the 1970s and 1980s.


"There may be some movement that tries to separate Japan from the
United States, but we will stay in close cooperation (with
Washington) not to make it happen," Abe said.


"We will stay with the same policy that we won't fund the energy
assistance without seeing progress" in the abduction issue, he
said.


Japan's envoy to the nuclear disarmament talks said Monday that
North Korea again urged that Tokyo be ousted from the talks, but
pledged to press ahead on the abductions.


"The kidnapping issue is an important aspect of the (six-party
talks). Unfortunately, there has been little progress," Japanese
chief negotiator Kenichiro Sasae said.


"If you compare it to a marathon, we have just started running,"
he said. "There is a long way to go."


Rare one-on-one talks between North Korea and Japan broke down in
acrimony earlier this month in Vietnam, with Pyongyang incensed
by Tokyo bringing up the abduction row.


North Korea has acknowledged kidnapping 13 Japanese in the 1970s
and 1980s to train its spies.


It returned five victims and their families, and says the rest
are dead, but Japan maintains that the other abductees are alive
and that more Japanese nationals were snatched than the secretive
state has admitted.


Vice Foreign Minister Shotaro Yachi told reporters in Tokyo that
the lifting of US sanctions would not be an obstacle to Japan
seeking a solution to North Korea's kidnappings.


"Of course I can't say it would help in increasing pressure on
the abduction issue, but it will not be a critical problem," he
said.

