

The 1982 Falklands conflict was "perhaps the least expected war
in history," an official said Monday on the anniversary of the
low-profile Argentine landing which preceded the showdown with
Britain.


On March 20, 1982 a group of 50 Argentinians, claiming to be
scrap metal workers, landed on South Georgia, which is nearly
1,400 kilometers 9870 miles) from the Falklands but, at that
time, came under the same administration as the British-run
island chain.


The alarm was sounded after they raised their nation's flag,
while the boat they arrived in was believed to be a government-
registered vessel, and London was quickly alerted by the British
Antarctic Survey unit on the island.


The diplomatic response -- a curt demand to leave British
territory immediately -- is to go on display for the first time
next month, officials at the National Army Museum in London said
Monday.


In the note, Falklands governor Rex Hunt warns the new arrivals:
"You have landed illegally at Leith without obtaining proper
clearance. You and your party must go back on board the BAHIA
BUEN SUCESO immediately..."


"You must remove the Argentine flag from Leith. You must not
interfere withthe B.A.S depot at Leith. You must not alter or
deface any of the notices at Leith".


Alastair Massie, head of archives at the museum, said the
document -- which will go on display on April 2, the anniversary
of the Argentinian invasion -- was sure to "evoke a response from
later generations because of the momentous events" described.


"This note, the British response to Argentine aggression, marked
the countdown to the Falklands conflict and perhaps the least
expected war in history," he said.


"The British Government were taken completely by surprise, but
the fact that they were prepared to fight came as an equally
nasty shock to the military junta ruling Argentina."


Britain and Argentina went to war after Argentina's military
government, headed by General Leopoldo Galtieri, invaded the
islands.


Britain retook the islands within a couple of months, after
sending a task force down to the remote south Atlantic, cementing
the no-nonsense reputation of then prime minister Margaret
Thatcher.


Documents declassified last December indicated that senior
British politicians were aware that Argentina could invade the
Falkland Islands at least six years before war broke out.


But a previously secret March 1976 briefing paper prepared for
Harold Wilson, prime minister at the time, suggests that senior
figures did not believe then that Britain should pursue a
conflict.

