

The United States brushed aside on Monday a Russian suggestion to
replace the UN special envoy for Kosovo, Martti Ahtisaari, after
failing to reach agreement with the leaders of Serbia over the
future of the breakaway province.


"I think Mr Ahtisaari is doing a very good job with a very tough
issue," said State Department spokesman Sean McCormack.


Ahtisaari, the former Finnish president, is due to submit his
final recommendations over the future status of the southern
Serbian province of Kosovo to the UN Security Council in the next
two weeks.


Over the weekend Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said more
effort was needed to find a compromise between Serbia and
Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority over the future of the province
currently under UN supervision.


And on Monday the Russian envoy to the UN, Vitaly Churkin,
stormed out of a UN Security Council meeting on Kosovo accusing
the UN special envoy for Kosovo Joachim Rucker of "preaching for
independence."


After more than 13 months of UN-sponsored talks brokered by
Ahtisaari, Serbian and ethnic Albanian officials have failed to
agree on future self-rule for the disputed Serbian province.


Ahtisaari said Saturday "the potential of negotiations is
exhausted".


Lavrov fired back: "If Martti Ahtisaari has exhausted his
resources, we can surely find someone else to handle this issue.


"I'm convinced that, given the way the positions now stand, it is
necessary to continue the negotiations," Lavrov said.


McCormack said it was time for the UN to take a stance on Kosovo.


"It is a topic that's been with us for around a decade now and if
there were any easy answers to it then it would have been solved
by now," he said.


"Now is the time to come together, come up with what we can all
agree is the best possible solution -- it will likely not satisfy
every single party, but it is time to bring some resolution to
the issue of Kosovo," he said.


Ahtisaari's plan, unveiled last month, involves offering self-
governance to Kosovo, whose ethnic-Albanian majority wants to
break away from Serbia. Although it does not specifically mention
independence, the plan is opposed in Serbia and by its
traditional ally, Russia.


Kosovo has been administered by the United Nations since 1999,
when NATO bombing helped to drive out Serb forces carrying out a
brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanians.

