

Hackers are selling fake US-based credit cards on the Internet
for as little as one dollar, and a full set of data for a fake
identity for as low as 14 dollars, a Web security firm said
Monday.


A semiannual report by California-based Symantec found threats in
cyberspace are growing, particularly in data theft and "targeted
malicious code for the purpose of stealing confidential
information that can be used for financial gain."


"Cyber criminals continue to refine their attack methods in an
attempt to remain undetected and to create global, cooperative
networks to support the ongoing growth of criminal activity," the
Internet Security Threat Report noted.


Symantec said it tracked for the first time the trade of stolen
confidential information and captured data being sold on
"underground" servers.


These are networks used by hackers and shadowy criminal
organizations to sell stolen information, including social
security numbers, credit cards, personal identification numbers
(PINs), and e-mail address lists.


Some 51 percent of all these servers in the world were located in
the United States. Sweden ranked second, accounting for 15
percent of the worldwide total, and Canada ranked third,
accounting for seven percent.


On the networks, US-based credit cards with a verification number
were available for between one and six dollars while an identity,
including a US bank account, credit card, date of birth and
government-issued identification number, was available for
between 14 and 18 dollars, Symantec said.


Symantec estimated that 4,943 bank cards were sold over these
networks in the last six months of 2006, mostly from US-based
banks.


Also being sold on the networks: Online bank accounts with a
9,900-dollar balance for 300 dollars; PayPal accounts for 10 to
500 dollars and a list of 2,900 e-mail addresses for three
dollars.


Much of the credit card and bank data is stolen by infecting
computers to allow the hackers to gain access to passwords and
other sensitive information. This is done through e-mails, often
spam, that have viruses or other malicious code.


Another method is to trick consumers into giving up user
information by fake e-mails purportedly from banks and other
organizations, a technique known as "phishing."


In other cases, hackers can sometimes break into computer
networks of governments or businesses to steal key data.


"Most breaches of this type are avoidable," Symantec said, if
companies encrypt sensitive data.


"As cyber criminals become increasingly malicious, they continue
to evolve their attack methods to become more complex and
sophisticated in order to prevent detection," said Arthur Wong,
senior vice president at Symantec.


"End users, whether consumers or enterprises, need to ensure
proper security measures to prevent an attacker from gaining
access to their confidential information, causing financial loss,
harming valuable customers, or damaging their own reputation."


Spam, a key source for e-mail computer infections, made up 59
percent of all e-mail traffic monitored by Symantec over the six-
month period, up from 54 percent in the first half of 2006.


By sending out spam and infecting computers, hackers can create
"bot networks" of "zombie" computers that can be used for
additional attacks.


Symantec said it observed an average of 63,912 active bot-
infected computers per day over the period, up 11 percent over
the previous six months.


China had the highest number of bot-infected computers,
accounting for 26 percent of the total, with 14 percent in the
United States. Brazil was third with nine percent.


But the United States reported 31 percent of worldwide "malicious
activity," well ahead of China with 10 percent.

