

Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong on Monday agreed to
push ahead economic cooperation with Japan but distanced himself
from his counterpart's remarks on emotive history issues.


Lee visited Tokyo in the wake of regional uproar after Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe denied Japan had directly coerced Asian
women into sexual slavery during World War II.


"I feel puzzled over the recent debates made in Japan," Lee was
quoted by Jiji Press as saying after a meeting with New Komeito,
a pacifist party in Abe's coalition.


New Komeito leader Akihiro Ota reaffirmed that Abe stood by a
1993 statement of apology to so-called "comfort women."


Lee, in an interview with Japanese media last week, said Tokyo
should be careful not to cause concern.


"These are historical events which took place, for which many
historians have published very well documented studies, so I
don't think there is anything more for me to add," Lee had
earlier said, as quoted by Kyodo News.


Japan captured Singapore in February 1942 in the British
military's biggest ever surrender. Singaporean historians say
Japanese forces killed 50,000 ethnic Chinese in the island city
before surrendering in 1945.


Despite the dark past, Singapore and Japan have developed warm
relations in more recent times. Abe and Lee signed an agreement
as a formality to the two countries' free-trade agreement.


Abe, despite his conservative views, has worked since taking
office to repair strained relations with China.


Speaking with Lee, Abe said he believed China's growth "is a good
opportunity," according to Abe's close aide Hiroshige Seko.


"I visited China last year and we agreed to build a strategic,
mutual relationship," Seko quoted Abe as saying.


"At the same time, there are some concerns about China, for
example its 19 consecutive years of increasing its military
budget without transparency," Seko said, quoting the Japanese
leader.


Lee, who arrived on Sunday for a four-day visit, also had lunch
with Emperor Akihito at the imperial palace.


The Singaporean premier late Sunday held talks with Finance
Minister Koji Omi and agreed to "step up the two countries'
cooperation in the financial sector so as not to repeat a
regional financial crisis," a finance ministry official said.


Financial markets in the region have been rattled by recent
turbulence, which was sparked in part by a plunge on shares on
the Shanghai Stock Exchange on February 27.

