

Former Test player Omar Henry admits watching South Africa take
on Scotland in the World Cup on Tuesday will tug on his emotions.


Henry, the first non-white player to represent South Africa after
the end of apartheid, spent 12 seasons in Scotland playing club
cricket and, like many of his countrymen, attracted the moniker
"Jock-Bok".


He played at such remote cricket outposts such as Poloc,
Stenhousemuir and Arbroath, making 14,000 club runs and 29
centuries.


"It's a dream come true, really, to see both sides playing each
other at the World Cup," Henry told the cricket europe website.


"For South Africa to go to the World Cup ranked No.1 is quite an
achievement for a country that has only been back in
international cricket for 15 years. People don't realise that.


"They look beyond it and think South Africa have always been
there, but we were outside for 25 years. Considering the
challenges they have had to work through, to get the No.1 spot is
an enormous achievement, and it's an opportunity for South Africa
possibly to win the World Cup for the first time. But it will be
a very tough task."


The 55-year-old has fond memories of his time in Scotland and
believes that just qualifying for the tournament is an
achievement in itself.


"From a Scotland perspective, it's even bigger. I started to play
there in 1982 and with all the challenges they have had to face,
to get themselves into a second World Cup is an achievement
possibly beyond a lot of people's imaginations in Scotland. It's
a fairytale story."


But it looks an impossible task on paper to beat the South
Africans who have already dismissed the Netherlands at the
compact Warner Park ground in St Kitts by 221 runs.


The Scots themselves have already been beaten by world champions
Australia by 209 runs.


"I have been watching Scotland ever since I left and they have
made progress, but I think within that progress there are lessons
to be learned on how to do things better than they did in the
past," said Henry.


"The first priority is to go out there and enjoy themselves, and
not put too much pressure on themselves. If you go out there in
fear of losing, you won't learn anything because you're looking
at it from a fear point of view.


"They have to work out how to be competitive against the top
teams, but losing to South Africa or Australia at this stage is
not the end of the world."

