

A court in the Zimbabwean capital Harare ordered on Monday the
release of the leader of a breakaway opposition faction after he
was detained by police while trying to fly out of the country.


Judge Tendai Uchena said he had been left with "no option but to
grant a default judgement" for Arthur Mutambara to be freed after
it emerged his arrest had not been carried out with the agreement
of the attorney general's office.


Police, who had said they arrested Mutambara at Harare airport on
Saturday on charges of inciting public violence, failed to turn
up for the hearing at the high court in Harare.


The head of a Movement for Democratic Change breakaway faction,
Mutambura was also arrested on March 11 alongside the main MDC
leader Morgan Tsvangirai and dozens of other activists, who were
severely beaten as they tried to stage an anti-government rally.


The high court last Monday ordered all those arrested to be
either freed or charged by 1000 GMT Tuesday. The prosecution
failed to charge them and they were released.


Sanders Maphosa, a spokesman for the attorney general's office,
said he was "not sure why police had arrested Mutambara for the
second time as the AG (attorney general) had advised police to
abide by the (earlier) court order."


Mutambura's lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa, who applied for his arrest to
be declared unlawful, said the police had acted in "complete
disdain" for the court order.


"The police do not believe they are bound by the court. Police
are showing a complete disregard of the (legal) process," she
said.


Mutambara himself was not in court and it was not known if or
when he would be released from custody.


MDC spokesman Nelson Chamisa, who was prevented from leaving the
country on Sunday when he was beaten up by unidentified
assailants, sustaining serious head injuries, was still in
hospital under police guard Monday.


"We feared that his eye would be removed but the doctor has
advised us that it can be fixed. However our only major concern
is that his kidneys have been ruptured," spokesman William Bango
told AFP.

