

Two New York police officers involved in the shooting death of an
unarmed black man last year have been charged with manslaughter,
prosecutors said Monday.


The two were among five officers involved in the shooting of Sean
Bell, 23, who was gunned down in a hail of bullets as he was
leaving a nightclub in the borough of Queens in November, just
hours before he was due to get married.


The two undercover detectives, Gescard Isnora, who is black, and
Michael Oliver, who is white, were charged with both intentional
and reckless manslaughter and face up to 25 years in jail if
convicted.


"The grand jury, as you know, concluded its deliberations last
Friday... It has handed up an eight count indictment, which was
sealed by law until this morning," Queens District Attorney
Richard Brown told reporters.


"Two of the officers charged... have been charged with
manslaughter in the first degree and in the second degree, that
is to say both with intentional manslaughter and reckless
manslaughter," he said.


A third officer indicted over the shooting, Detective Marc
Cooper, was charged with reckless endangerment and faces one year
in jail if convicted. The three surrendered in New York early
Monday and were later due in court.


The shooting triggered anger and protests in New York, amid
allegations that the incident reflected racism in the New York
Police Department.


Isnora fired the first shot, but it was the fact that Oliver
fired 31 shots -- a feat that required him to reload his weapon
-- that has angered many.


Undercover police who had been staking out the Queens nightclub
fired some 50 shots at Bell and two friends, killing the
bridegroom and wounding the two others, in circumstances that
remain unclear.


Investigations have hinged on conflicting reports over whether
there may have been a fourth man with Bell, armed with a gun, who
later fled the scene.


Police were put on standby last week amid fears that a decision
not to indict any of the officers would lead to civil
disturbance.


Michael Palladino, head of the Detectives Endowment Association,
last week criticized the decision to indict the officers.


"I firmly disagree with the decision to indict these officers. I
do not think that the reaction of the officers rises to the level
of criminality.


"I think that the message being sent by the indictments will have
a chilling effect not only on New York City detectives and New
York City police but on law enforcement throughout the country,"
he said.


"They took the action they took in good faith," he added. "The
message that's being sent now is that even though you're acting
in good faith ... there is no margin for error."

