

Italian journalist Daniele Mastrogiacomo was freed Monday after
15 days in the hands of the extremist Taliban who had threatened
to kill him.


Top Taliban commander Mullah Dadullah told an Afghan news agency
that Daniele Mastrogiacomo, 52, was freed in exchange for five
Taliban prisoners but AFP could not immediately confirm this with
the Afghan government.


Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi announced Mastrogiacomo's
release live on the all-news channel Sky TG 24, saying the
veteran reporter was admitted to a hospital in Lashkar Gah,
capital of southern Helmand province, and was in good health.


Mastrogiacomo was captured in Helmand on March 4 with his Afghan
interpreter and driver reportedly while going to meet a Taliban
commander.


"I hope we can hold him in our arms very soon," Prodi said.


Mastrogiacomo, a correspondent for the left-leaning La Repubblica
daily, spoke to the Italian ambassador in Kabul, Ettore Francesco
Sequi, by telephone to confirm his release at around 1400 GMT, a
foreign ministry spokesman told AFP.


"I'm very happy, I thank you all. I knew you wouldn't abandon me,
and that gave me strength and courage," he said over La
Repubblica's online television station.


The association Peace Reporter, which has links with the
Emergency humanitarian group that was involved in negotiations
for the reporter's release, said he was dressed in Afghan garb
and "is well and in great shape."


Emergency also runs the Lashkar Gah hospital.


His first words as he hugged Gino Strada, founder of Emergency,
were, "I'm fine," Peace Reporter said on its website.


Dadullah threatened in an interview with AFP last week to kill
Mastrogiacomo if certain demands were not met by Monday evening,
notably the release of Taliban members in Afghan government
custody.


The Pajhwok Afghan News agency based in Kabul said it had been
sent a recorded message from Dadullah confirming the Italian's
release and naming five prisoners he was exchanged for.


Two were head of the Taliban "cultural wing", Ustad Yasar and ex-
spokesman Latifullah Hakimi, both arrested in 2005.


The others were Mansoor Ahmad, a brother of Dadullah, and two
commanders named Hamdullah and Abdul Ghaffar. There were no
details on these men.


Dadullah said in the tape that he was still holding
Mastrogiacomo's Afghan interpreter but reports said the man had
been released.


AFP could not independently confirm the terms of the release.
Presidential spokesman Karim Rahimi told AFP that President Hamid
Karzai "had ordered the security organisations to make all
possible efforts to gain his release."


The reported terms of the release met with concern in Kabul.


"If it is true that there has been a trade-off of this nature
with that level of prisoner, that would be of significant
concern, particularly in light of the risk it represents not only
for journalists but any foreigner in Afghanistan," a Western
official said on condition of anonymity.


"This is a free-for-all," a foreign diplomat said, also
requesting his name be withheld. "This is sending completely the
wrong message.


"You may as well stick 1,000 dollar bills on the back of any
foreign journalist heading down south."


"Journalists are precious now," an Afghan security official said.

