

Pakistani cricketers Monday joined the cricket world in mourning
the death of their coach Bob Woolmer, remembered as a fatherly
figure by captain Inzamam-ul- Haq and his team-mates.


"Woolmer was a fatherly figure to all of us and we have lost our
greatest supporter," said Inzamam of the 58-year-old coach who
died on Sunday after being found unconscious in his hotel room in
Jamaica.


Since joining the Pakistan team in July 2004, Woolmer had dug
deep in transforming an inconsistent and split Pakistan team into
a united fighting unit.


"We owe him a great salute and would like to do anything his
family wants from us," said Inzamam, who also pledged to carry
the coffin of the late coach to South Africa where his last rites
will be held.


Pakistan were dumped out of the World Cup after losing their
second match to outsiders Ireland by three wickets on Saturday, a
defeat which badly hurt Woolmer.


"We had two tragic events in the last two days. We had yet to
cope with the defeat and our ouster from the World Cup - then a
bigger tragedy came about," said Inzamam.


Inzamam on Sunday announced he would retire from one-day cricket
after the one- dayer against Zimbabwe on Wednesday -- a match
dedicated to the coach -- before Pakistan team head back home.


Vice-captain Younis Khan told AFP he had a friendly relationship
with Woolmer.


"He was a friend of all the players. I used to call his wife,
Gill, mom so he used to tease her that I am their third son,"
reminisced Younis, who in the last 18 months has lost his father,
sister and two brothers in a series of tragedies.


"I know how it feels when you lose your close ones. Bob used to
help each and every player and he has left a big void in Pakistan
cricket," said Younis, who is now expected to take over as
captain from Inzamam.


All-rounder Shahid Afridi, banned from the first two matches for
violating the ICC (International Cricket Council) code of
conduct, said Woolmer was like a father to him.


"Bob always treated me and other players as his sons. He would
help any player who was in difficulty and he was the best coach
under whom I have played," said Afridi.


Another all-rounder Azhar Mahmood said Bob was accessible to all
players.


"He used to follow my county performance even when I was not in
the Pakistan team. I owe him a great deal and we can never repay
his help and services to us," said Mahmood.


Pakistan's assistant manager, Asad Mustafa, said players had been
left shell- shocked by the news of Woolmer's death.


"I used to deal all his travel arrangements, so he was close to
me and would talk with a big smile all the time. We will not be
able to overcome this loss," said Mustafa.

