

US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Monday called for
patience as the Iraq war entered its fifth year, vowing that a
peaceful, civil society eventually would prevail there.


"It will take some time for the violence to change," Rice told
NBC television.


"I would ask the American people to be patient. We have invested
a lot. It's worth the sacrifice and ultimately I believe that we
and the Iraqis together will prevail," she said.


While conceding that much had not gone well in the four years
since the US-led invasion, Rice said that there were some
successes in Iraq.


"Saddam Hussein is gone," she said. "The Iraqi people have an
opportunity of having been liberated from this tyrant to build a
country based on politics and not tyranny. They voted. They have
a constitution."


Rice said Saddam had weapons of mass destruction when Iraq
invaded Kuwait in 1991, sparking the first Gulf War.


"He was a dangerous man and it was worth it to overthrow him," he
said.


And she said there were also signs of progress in defeating
Iraq's stubborn insurgency and the bloody sectarian violence that
has engulfed the country.


A new US military commander David Petraeus was in place and there
had been a fresh infusion of thousands of US troops on the
ground, she said.


"From the point of view of the US, the counter-insurgency
strategy that General Petraeus is now pursuing is a strategy that
has a chance to give the Iraqis a new opportunity to get their
political reconciliation in place," Rice said.


"That would top my list of things that have gone right."


Rice added: "The Baghdad security plan is going well, but there
will be good and bad days."


While US officials were generally optimistic Monday, Iraqis were
expressing despair.


In a new poll commissioned by the BBC, ABC News, ARD German TV
and USA Today, Iraqis were increasingly pessimistic about the
future and fewer than one in five said they have faith in the US-
led coalition.


Just a quarter, 26 percent, said they feel safe in their own
neighborhoods as the anniversary of the US-led invasion is marked
this week.


Meanwhile some 78 percent of respondents said they opposed the
presence of coalition forces, while 69 percent said they worsened
the security situation.


Rice said Monday that she understood the concerns.


"I don't doubt that the Iraqi people have a lot of fears," she
told NBC television. "It's a violent circumstance, particularly
around Baghdad. It's a circumstance that the Iraqi government
understands that it has to get under control.


Meanwhile sectarian violence was unabated in Iraq Monday, as a
series of coordinated car bombs and mortar attacks killed 15
people and wounded dozens more in the ethnically-volatile Iraqi
oil hub of Kirkuk.


Another eight people were killed in violence elsewhere in the
war-ravaged country highlighting the nation's relentless
bloodshed four years since the March 20 US-led invasion of Iraq
in 2003.

