

Four more Pakistani judges quit Monday in protest at the removal
of the country's top judge by President Pervez Musharraf,
officials said, piling further pressure on the government.


Musharraf suspended Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry on
March 9 and ordered him to face charges of misconduct and abuse
of power before a judicial panel, sparking violent protests in
Islambad and Lahore.


A high court judge in central Punjab province and three judges in
southern Sindh province all tendered their resignations on Monday
as resentment grew over the controversy.


Justice Jawad Khawaja of the Lahore High Court submitted his
resignation, citing Chaudhry's removal and the police action
against protesters, Supreme Court Bar Association president Munir
Malik said.


"I have talked to Justice Jawad Khawaja, who confirmed he has
resigned," Malik told AFP.


"Justice Khawaja told me that he resigned over police excesses
including tear gas shelling inside the High Court building and
baton charge of lawyers" during their rallies in Lahore on Friday
and Saturday, he added.


Separately the advocate General of southern Sindh province, Anwar
Mansoor, confirmed the resignations of two judges in Karachi,
Pakistan's biggest city, and another in the town of Pannu Aqil.


"My conscience does not allow me to continue as a judicial
officer," one of the judges, Ashraf Yar Khan, an assistant
sessions judge in the southern city of Karachi, said in a
statement.


A civil judge in the central Pakistani city of Bahawalpur
resigned last week while a public prosecutor told reporters that
he was also quitting.


Pakistani riot police fired rubber bullets at protesters and
ransacked the offices of a private television company on Friday
when Chaudhry appeared at the Supreme Court in Islamabad for the
most recent hearing into his fate.


Chaudhry has denied any wrongdoing. At the weekend restrictions
on his movement were reduced after he said he was under virtual
house arrest, a claim rejected by the government.


Lawyers and hardline Islamic parties have called for further,
nationwide protests when Chaudhry appears again before the
Supreme Judicial Council on Wednesday.


A protest rally in Islamabad will be led by Qazi Hussain Ahmad,
chief of Pakistan's main alliance of religious parties, alliance
spokesman Shahid Shamsi told AFP. Ahmad was briefly arrested
during Friday's protests.


"We will have second and even third lines of leadership to lead
the rallies if our leaders are arrested," Shamsi said.

