

US President George W. Bush pleaded for patience Monday with his
unpopular Iraq strategy, warning that now was not the time to
"pack up and go home" as the war slipped into its fifth year.


Bush, marking the invasion anniversary in a subdued eight-minute
statement from the White House, did not use the word "victory"
but said success was still in reach and required securing the
strife-torn Iraqi capital.


"The Baghdad security plan is still in its early stages and
success will take months, not days or weeks," the embattled
president said, as US lawmakers took up legislation aimed at
forcing a withdrawal of US troops.


"It could be tempting to look at the challenges in Iraq and
conclude our best option is to pack up and go home. That may be
satisfying in the short run, but I believe the consequences for
American security would be devastating," he warned.


"If American forces were to step back from Baghdad before it is
more secure, a contagion of violence could spill out across the
entire country. In time, this violence could engulf the region,"
he said.


"The terrorists could emerge from the chaos with a safe haven in
Iraq to replace the one they had in Afghanistan, which they used
to plan the attacks of September 11, 2001. For the safety of the
American people, we cannot allow this to happen," he said.


Despite Bush's warnings, a new poll on Monday showed already
skeptical US public opinion on Iraq had soured further, with only
32 percent of Americans saying they favored the war, compared to
72 percent just after it began.


Nearly half of those questioned in the survey by Opinion Research
Corp. for CNN said they strongly opposed the war. Four years ago
only one in five said they were strongly against it.


And despite recent claims by the Bush administration and top
generals that the month-old US troop surge was beginning to work,
another poll told a story of Iraq skepticism.


Only 18 percent of those polled had confidence in US and
coalition troops, while 78 percent opposed their presence, 69
percent said their presence made security worse and 51 percent
said attacks on coalition forces were justified.


The poll, commissioned by the BBC, ABC News, ARD German TV and
USA Today contrasted with a similar survey two years ago when
two-thirds of Iraqis were more upbeat.


But in a British television interview Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri
al-Maliki, who spoke to Bush Monday in a secure video conference,
insisted sectarian killing had ended and blamed violence on Al-
Qaeda, which he called "the biggest threat" to Iraq.


Leaders of the Democratic majority in Congress were meanwhile
gathering for another week of bombarding Bush with political
attacks over the war.


By mid-week, the House of Representatives was due to debate
Bush's 124 billion dollar funding request for the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan.


Democrats last week inserted a clause calling for the withdrawal
of US combat troops from Iraq by September 2008 at the latest,
but Bush has vowed to veto any such legislation if it makes it to
his desk.

