

Somali and Ugandan troops on Monday secured the port of Mogadishu
ahead of the arrival of military hardware for African Union
peacekeepers deployed in the volatile Somali capital.


A day after more than a dozen rebel mortar shells missed their
target at the port and crashed onto civilian positions nearby,
Ugandan troops prepared to receive a freighter carrying tanks and
armoured vehicles.


"Access to the seaport will be extremely limited for security
reasons because the AU is receiving a delivery of equipment for
their peacekeepers," said Captain Paddy Ankunda, spokesman for
the Ugandan forces.


"The ship is coming soon, it is very near, and we are tightening
security," he told AFP.


As Ankunda spoke, two helicopters circled the port in a bid to
boost security around one of the most targeted facilities in the
lawless capital.


"Those two helicopters are our supporting force," Ankunda said.


The Ugandans have been the first AU troops to deploy, amid
violent attacks, in the coastal capital. Some 1,200 Ugandan
troops of a total 1,500 have already arrived.


Hundreds of Somali troops and dozens of Ugandans have deployed
around the port for the delivery of Ugandan military vehicles
arriving by sea from the Kenyan port of Mombasa, expected in the
coming hours or days.


Ankunda gave no timescale for the deployment but said that
heightened security measures, including police searches of
vehicles heading towards the port, would last only during the
delivery of the Ugandan equipment.


Violence in Mogadishu, the scene of almost daily attacks,
increased around the port on Sunday, with one civilian killed and
11 wounded in a series of incidents.


Late Sunday, government troops at the seaport fired towards boats
at sea.


Meanwhile, in the southern port town of Kismayo, police chief
Major Abdi Mohamed Abdulle was shot dead Sunday by one of his own
bodyguards.


Somali forces and their US-backed Ethiopian allies have been
battling an increasing insurgency since they routed a powerful
Islamist movement from south and central Somalia in January.


Earlier this month, the AU deployed some 1,200 Ugandan troops to
the Horn of Africa nation, part of a proposed 8,000-strong force
aimed at enabling Ethiopian troops to leave and Somali forces to
take over.


The AU mission is the first international peacekeeping venture
since United States troops led an ill-fated, UN-backed peace
operation in the early 1990s.

